BERMUDA.

Smith's parish

J. W. Pearman.
C. Peniston.
T. H. Outerbridge.
A. Outerbridge.
T. A. Outerbridge.
S. C. Outerbridge.
J. S. Darrell.
G. W. West.
J. R. Duerden.
W. J. Boyle.
Alexander Smith.
G. Spurling.

Hamilton parish

St. George's parish

Clerk, D. E. Seon, 150l.

Civil Establishment.

Governor and Commander-in-Chief, Lieut.-General Thomas Casey Lyons, C.B., 2,946l.
Aide-de-Camp and Private Secretary, Captain A. J. W. Dowell.

Colonial Secretary's Department.

Colonial Secretary and Registrar-General, A. Alison, 400l. and fees.
Clerk, Alian F. Smith, 190l.
District Registrars, J. M. Hayward, C. Peniston, R. Tynes, C. H. Tucker, J. T. Darrell, John Fowle.
Colonial Surveyor, W. C. Hallett, 350l.
Causeway Bridge Keeper, T. L. Outerbridge, 146l.
Lighthouse Keepers, W. S. Perinchiet 125l., and J. Carriss, 100l.
Medical Officer of Health, Eldon Harvey, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 370l.
Health Officers, C. H. Butterfield, M.D., and Surgeon Captain G. F. Gubbin, A.M.S., fees.
Queen's Printer, G. V. Lee.

Revenue Department.

Receiver-General, Comptroller of Customs and Navigation Laws, and Registrar of Shipping, James Tucker, C.M.G., 500l. and fees.
Assistant ditto, St. Georges, J. H. S. Frith, 200l.
Clerk, Treasury, C. H. Tucker, 190l.
Revenue Officer, Hamilton, J. T. Gilbert, 160l.
" St. Georges, C. M. McCallan, 160l.
" Ireland Island, A. R. Outerbridge, 150l.
Inspector of Schools, Geo. Simpson, 250l.

Police and Gaols.

Police Magistrate, Hamilton, M. M. Frith, 200l.
" St. Georges, W. T. Roberts, 170l.
" Sandys, John Fowle, 170l.
Superintendent of Police, G. Tear, 100l.
Gaoler, Hamilton, A. Hatcher, 85l.
" St. Georges, J. Kendrick, 85l.

General Post Office.

Colonial Postmaster, A. G. Butterfield, 300l.
Clerks, C. W. McCallan, 200l.; A. C. C. Jones, 120l.
Postmaster, St. George's, Van O. S. Brown, 200l.
Clerk, A. Greig, 60l.
Sub-Postmaster, Sandys, R. Fowle, 60l.
Sub-Postmistress, Ireland Island, M. L. Warder, 80l.

Judicial Establishment.

Chief Justice (and Judge of Vice-Admiralty Court), Sir Josiah Rees, Kt., 700l. and fees.
Assistant Judges, J. H. Trimingham and T. N. Dill, fees.
Attorney-General (and Advocate of Vice-Admiralty Court), S. B. Gray, 600l. and fees.
Proctor-Marshal, Clarence Peniston, 200l. and fees.
Clerk of Assize Court, D. E. Seon, 100l., fees.
Registrar, Vice-Admiralty Court, N. A. Butterfield, fees.
Marshal, S. A. Masters, fees.
Coroners, T. J. Lightbourn and J. M. Hayward, fees.

Ecclesiastical Establishment.

Bishop of Newfoundland and Bermudas, Right Rev. Llewellyn Jones.
Rector, St. George, Rev. F. J. F. Lightbourn.
Ditto, Hamilton and Smith, Rev. G. Tucker.
Ditto, Pembroke and Devonshire, Rev. M. James.
Ditto, Paget and Warwick, Rev. J. F. B. L. Lough.
Ditto, Sandys and Southampton, Rev. Bruce Mackay.
Presbyterian Minister, Rev. Alex. Christie.
Ditto, Rev. A. Burrows, D.D.
Wesleyan Ministers, Revs. W. Dobson, J. A. Smith, R. Stevens, and C. H. Huestis.
Reformed Episcopal, Rev. Henry J. Wood.
African Methodist Episcopal, Rev. C. C. Dunlap.

The churches and religious denominations are all endowed under a temporary Act out of the Public Treasury, at the rate of 10l. for every 100 of the number of their body, according to the late General Census return.

Admiralty Establishment.

Captain in Charge, John W. Brackenbury, R.N., C.B., C.M.G.
Secretary, R. F. Johnson.
Master Attendant, Staff Commander William Way.
Deputy Inspector-General of Hospitals, T. Brown, M.D., R.N.
Naval Storekeeper, H. C. Maule.

Chief Military Officers.

Lieut.-General Commanding, Lieut. - General Thomas Casey Lyons, C.B.
Aide-de-Camp, Capt. A. J. W. Dowell.
Assistant Military Secretary, Major R. M. Brady, W.D.R.A.

Deputy Assistant Adjutant Generals

Lieut.-Colonel W. R. Winter, A.S. Corps.
Lieut.-Colonel W. A. Yule, D.S.O., Royal Scots Fusiliers.

Commanding Royal Artillery, Lieut.-Colonel F. C. Morgan.
Commanding Royal Engineer, Lieut.-Colonel E. C. S. Moore.
Senior Ordnance Store Officer, Assistant Commissary General of Ordnance W. B. Cooke.
District Paymaster, Staff Paymaster W. Moore Laue.
Senior Medical Officer, Brigade Surgeon H. Comerford.
Senior Chaplain to the Forces, Rev. T. Foran.
Foreign Consuls.

Consul for the United States, M. Hanger.
Vice and Deputy, ditto, J. B. Heyl.
United States Commercial Agent, St. George, E. W. Willett.
France, J. M. Hayward.
Spain, James A. Conyers.
Norway and Sweden, James A. Conyers.
Denmark, Netherlands, and Portugal, J. S. Darrell.
German Empire, Wm. E. Meyer.

BRITISH BECHUANALAND.*

Situation and Area.

The Colony of British Bechuanaland is bounded on the east by the South African Republic, on the south by the Cape Colony, on the west by the 20th meridian of east longitude, and on the north by the Nosop or Oup River, between its intersection by the 20th meridian of east longitude and its junction with the Molopo River, thence by the Molopo River to its junction with the Ramathlabama Spruit and thence by the said Spruit to the frontier of the South African Republic. The area of the territory included by these boundaries is 51,000 square miles.

The Protectorate over Bechuanaland and the Kalahari extends westward to the 20th meridian of east longitude, and northward to the 22nd parallel of south latitude. The area of the Protectorate is about 386,200 square miles. The country to the northward, as far as the Zambesi River, has been declared to be within the sphere of exclusively British influence and protection. A Royal Charter has been granted to the British South Africa Company, which is operating in this district.

History.

As a consequence of the Convention of London concluded on the 27th February, 1884, between Her Majesty and the South African Republic, it was decided by Her Majesty's Government to establish a protectorate in Bechuanaland, with the special object of protecting two chiefs named Mankoroane (chief of the Batlapins), and Montsioa (chief of the Barolongs). The cases of the chiefs were very similar. Mankoroane had a rival named Massouw, who was supported by certain Boers; whilst Montsioa had a rival, similarly supported, named Moshette. In each case the native supported by the Boers had been victorious in the hostilities which had taken place, and in the peace agreements which followed it was provided that the European volunteers should receive grants of land chiefly out of the former possession of the defeated chiefs. The allies of Massouw had constituted themselves into a Republic styled STELLALAND, and the allies of Moshette into one styled LAND GOOSEN, or the LAND OF GOSHEN. The Stellalanders succeeded to a great extent in occupying the lands thus carved out for them, and in organising a government. The Goshenites had not been so successful, and hostilities between them and Montsioa were still proceeding. In pursuance of the resolution to establish a protectorate, Mr. John Mackenzie, who had long lived with Mankoroane as a missionary, was appointed Deputy to the High Commissioner for Bechuanaland, and proceeded to Mankoroane's town of Taungs, where, on the 3rd May, 1884, he accepted from that chief a cession of his rights of government. After some ineffective negotiations with the white inhabitants of Stollaland, he proceeded to Mafeking, where, on the 22nd May, he negotiated a treaty with Montsioa similar to that obtained from Mankoroane. On his way back he visited the western chiefs and obtained treaties from them. All this time a police force had been in course of organisation at Kimberley and Taungs, but the work proceeded slowly, and there were no men available to keep the peace between Montsioa and the Goshenites. A few days before Mr. Mackenzie's arrival at Mafeking, Mr. Bethell, a white adviser of Montsioa, had led the tribe to burn part of the Goshenites' town. This was followed by reprisals on the part of the Goshenites, and finally a general engagement took place on the 31st July, when Montsioa's forces were completely routed, 100 tribesmen being killed, and also Mr. Bethell and a Mr. Walker, and the chief was driven to take refuge in his stockade at Mafeking. At this point the South African Republic intervened; Commandant-General Joubert brought about a so-called peace and settlement of the country, which included the destruction of Montsioa's laager and the absorption of all his country by the freebooters, except ten farms, or say about 60,000 acres. This agreement was immediately repudiated by Mr. Cecil Rhodes, who had succeeded Mr. Mackenzie as Deputy-Commissioner. Montsioa was also induced to offer to place himself and his tribe under the South African Republic; and the President, with the assent of the Volksraad, issued a proclamation, taking Montsioa, and also Moshetie, under the protection of the Republic, subject to the approval of Her Majesty the Queen, under Article IV. of the Convention of London, of 1884.

Her Majesty's Government, at once disapproved the proclamation, and at the same time took steps to reinstate Montsioa. Arrangements were made for collecting and despatching to Bechuanaland a force of about 4,000 men of all arms, including 2,000 irregular cavalry, under the immediate command of Sir Charles Warren, R.E. (now G.C.M.G.), who received also a civil commission as Special Commissioner for Bechuanaland. Whilst the military preparations were proceeding the Cape Premier and the Treasurer visited the country and concluded an arrangement with the Goshenites. This settlement was, however, regarded by Her Majesty's Government as unsatisfactory, and Sir Charles Warren was consequently directed to proceed and occupy the country, which he did without meeting with any armed opposition. He remained in military occupation of the country until August, 1885, completely restoring tranquillity, and engaging in many useful labours for the permanent pacification of the country. These labours included the marking off of the Transvaal and Bechuanaland boundary, as laid down by the London Convention of 1884 and visiting the chiefs of Northern Bechuanaland, Goshenite, Sechele, and Khama, over whom Her Majesty's Government had declared a protectorate in March, 1885.

To return to the affairs of the settlers in Stellaland, it may be mentioned that, after leaving Montsioa at the end of May, Mr. Mackenzie

* This territory was incorporated with the Cape Colony on 16th November, 1895.
arrived at a settlement of the affairs of the district with some of the persons with whom he had previously been treating, which involved a recognition to a great extent of the land claims of the Stellalanders, and of the money obligations of the Stellaland Government, and the assumption by the British Government of the administration of the country. Soon after Mr. Mackenzie was recalled to Cape Town by Sir Hercules Robinson, and whilst there, in view of the disfavour with which his appointment and proceedings were regarded by the Cape Ministry, he, on the 19th August, tendered his resignation.

In the meantime Mr. Rhodes had been sent to replace him in Bechuanaland, assisted by Commander Graham Bower, R.N., Sir Hercules Robinson's secretary. Those gentlemen arrived at an agreement with the Stellalanders on the 8th September, rescinding Mr. Mackenzie's arrangement and restoring the temporary administration of its affairs to the white inhabitants, under the supervision of the British Government pending a final settlement of affairs and the annexation of Bechuanaland to the Cape Colony. Sir Charles Warren declined to endorse this agreement, and in the end the whole land question in British Bechuanaland was relegated to a judicial commission consisting of the present administrator, Sir Sidney Shippard, and two officers.

On the 30th September, 1885, the territory south of the Molopo River and of the Ramathlabama Spruit was declared to be British territory under the name of British Bechuanaland. A commission was issued to the Governor of the Cape of Good Hope to be its governor, with power to legislate by proclamation, and the actual duties of administrator were entrusted to Mr. (now Sir) Sidney Shippard, Sir Charles Warren's force having been withdrawn, a mounted police force was formed for service in British Bechuanaland, and also to patrol and protect the country of the three protected chiefs of Northern Bechuanaland. Gatsitse, Sekelo, and Khamo. Montsia and Mankoroan's son, Molala, now receive a yearly stipend of £300, and £150, respectively from H.M. Government.

Climate, Water Supply, &c.

The climate of Bechuanaland is remarkably healthy. The dryness of the atmosphere neutralises to a great extent the effects of the heat in summer, while in winter the days are bright and tolerably warm, though between sunset and sunrise the cold is often intense owing to the elevation of the country, which may be roughly stated to vary from 4,000 to 4,500 feet above sea-level. The annual rainfall is about 25 inches. During the rainy season, from November to April, the rainfall is often very considerable, and many parts present for a time the appearance of extensive marshes, but the water soon disappears, and in summer most of the rivers or torrent-beds including the Molopo, are dry. Excellent water is however easily procurable at all times by digging in or near the river beds and by sinking wells in any part of the country. Thunderstorms are frequent in the summer, and dust storms from August to November.

The rate of mortality is low. Horse sickness is prevalent from December to May, and disappears when frost first sets in. Horses however become acclimatised, and with due precautions there is reason to believe that horse sickness may eventually disappear.

Industries.

The chief industry is agriculture, and the country is well adapted for the breeding and fattening of cattle. The soil is excellent, especially to the north of the Setlagoli River, and with irrigation and slight culture will produce abundant crops. The black soil of Rooigrond, near Mafeking, is of great fertility. Maize, or "mealies," and Kafir corn are produced in abundance, and also vegetables of all kinds. Acacias and thorn trees abound north of Setlagoli. Well sinking and windmill pumps are found adequate to secure the requisite irrigation. Tobacco is being cultivated.

No minerals worth mention have yet been discovered.

The value of the external trade cannot be given. The imports, which nearly all come from the Cape Colony, consist of textiles, hardware, and alcohol. The exports, nearly all for the Kimberley market, consist of mealies, wool, hides, cattle, and wood. The territory joined the South African Customs Union, 1 January, 1891.

Means of Communication.

There is a railway from Kimberley to Vryburg, which passes within 3 miles of Taungs, and is now extended to Mafeking. A further extension from Mafeking to the north towards Matabeleland is being constructed. From Mafeking excellent roads branch out in all directions. Palapye and the country north, up to the Zambezi, may be reached either by the direct route from Molopoole, which is badly watered, or by the Notwani and Limpopo or Crocodile Rivers. Mafeking is the emporium of the trade with the interior, and is at present mainly supplied with merchandise brought from the Cape Colony.

The temporary military line of telegraph left by Sir Charles Warren has been replaced by a permanent line, parallel with the railway to Mafeking. This has now been extended to the Macloutsie River, and as far north as Buluwayo and Salisbury.

There is a daily post with Cape Town and all parts of the Cape Colony. The English mail leaving Cape Town on Thursday reaches Vryburg on the following Saturday, and Mafeking on the following Sunday. Letters posted in Mafeking in time for the mail on Monday morning reach Cape Town in good time for the out-going English mail steamer on the following Wednesday. There is also a post between Kuruman and Vryburg, and letters can be sent weekly by post cart to Kanya, Molopoole, Palachwe, Tati, and Buluwayo in Matobeeland. The branch post to Kuruman leaves Vryburg on Mondays, and Kuruman on Thursdays. Postal business is rapidly increasing. A system of savings banks has also been established.

The Parcels Post has been extended to the Protectorate, and the Money Order business has been extended to the United Kingdom.

Rates of postage to the United Kingdom:

By all sea route ... 4d. per ½ oz.

Population of British Bechuanaland, exclusive of Natives who pay hut-tax.

| City       | Population |
|------------|------------|
| Mafeking   | 1,149      |
| Vryburg    | 5,666      |
| Taungs     | 775        |
| Kuruman    | 633        |
| Gordonia   | 4,508      |

The native population is estimated at 60,000.
Churches and Education.

British Bechuanaland forms part of the Anglican Diocese of Bloemfontein, and is within the circuit of the Archdeacon of Griqualand West. There are clergymen at Vryburg, Mafeking, and Phoquane.

At Vryburg a school for children has been opened. There is also a school at Mafeking.

The London Missionary Society maintains an educational establishment for natives at Kuruman, and has missionaries at that place, Taungs, Kanya, Molopolole, and elsewhere.

The Wesleyan Mission has been long established at Mafeking and elsewhere. There is a large Wesleyan native church and a European chapel at Mafeking, and one at Vryburg.

A Dutch Reformed Church has been opened at Vryburg.

Hospitals.

There are excellent public hospitals at Vryburg and Mafeking, besides the hospitals attached to all the gaols.

Currency and Banking.

A branch of the Standard Bank of South Africa was opened at Vryburg in Dec., 1889, and at Mafeking in 1890. There is also a post office savings bank at each seat of magistracy. The currency is exclusively British sterling.

Towns.

Both at Vryburg, which is the principal town, and the headquarters of government, and at Mafeking, in the neighbourhood of the native village of the same name, substantial public and private buildings of stone and burnt brick with galvanised iron roofs have been erected.

The British Protectorate.

The arrangements for the future administration of the Protectorate are still under consideration.

Revenue and Expenditure.

| Year | Local Revenue | Received from Parliamentary Grant | Expenditure |
|------|--------------|----------------------------------|-------------|
| 1885-6 | 7,409        | 56,436                           | 52,762      |
| 1886-7 | 11,757       | 86,945                           | 105,650     |
| 1887-8 | 13,816       | 78,000                           | 75,529      |
| 1888-9 | 15,742       | 76,000                           | 89,094      |
| 1889-90| 18,408       | 89,500                           | 98,271      |
| 1890-91| 45,812       | 115,991                          | 159,545     |
| 1891-92| 52,020       | 118,000                          | 154,700     |
| 1892-93| 52,064       | 100,000                          | 154,615     |
| 1893-94| 55,300       | 162,500                          | 237,928     |

Bechuanaland Protectorate.

Resident Commissioner, Francis J. Newton, C.M.G., 1,000l.

