ZULULAND.

Situation and Area.

Zululand is the territory lying to the north of Natal, from which it is divided by the River Tugela. It is bounded on the east by the Indian Ocean, on the north and north-west by that portion of the South African Republic (Vrijheid District) formerly known as the "New Republic," and on the north by Tongaland. It comprises the territory formerly known as the Zulu Reserve, with about two-thirds of the territory restored to Cetywayo and Usibebu in 1888, and was formally declared British territory in May, 1887. (The estimated area is roughly about 12,000 square miles.)
The Zulus are a warlike tribe of Kaffirs who, in the beginning of the century, under Chaka pressed southwards and became consolidated into a powerful and well organised kingdom. Chaka was murdered and succeeded by Dingaan in 1828, who came into conflict with the emigrant Dutch, by whom he was deposed in 1839, in favour of his brother Panda. In the latter years of Panda Zululand was distracted by the rival ambitions of his sons, and the Natal Government in 1861 sent Mr. (now Sir) Theophilus Shepstone, Secretary for Native Affairs, on a mission to Zululand, to induce the Zulus to recognise some one of Panda's sons as heir to his throne, and thus restore tranquillity to the country. The son chosen, with the consent of the nation, the king, and the Natal Government, was Cetywayo, who from that time acted to a great extent as regent for his father until the latter died in 1873. Cetywayo, at the instance of Mr. Shepstone, proclaimed certain new laws, which in effect came to this, that he was not to kill his subjects without adequate cause and without trial. The relations between Cetywayo and Natal during the first years of his reign were not unfriendly, though they became occasionally strained through disregard by him of his coronation law. But after the annexation by England of the Transvaal, a material change in the relations of the two powers took place. Cetywayo had long hated the Boers, with whom he had a boundary dispute, dating from 1861, and after the annexation his enmity appeared to be transferred to the new Government. The Zulu war party wanted at once to occupy the whole territory in dispute, and a collision between the Zulus and the British Government of the Transvaal appeared imminent, but was averted by the suggestion of Sir Henry Bulwer, Lieutenant Governor of Natal, to refer the dispute to the arbitration of three Commissioners to be selected by himself. This was accepted, both by Sir T. Shepstone, as Governor of the Transvaal, and by Cetywayo, and approved by Her Majesty's Government; the final award being however by them reserved to Sir B. Frere as Her Majesty's High Commissioner in South Africa. The Natal Commission reported in June, 1878, in favour of the claims of the Zulu king, and in September Sir B. Frere arrived in Natal and took up the consideration of the boundary dispute, and also of our general relations with the Zulus, which were becoming more and more strained. On the 11th of December his award in the arbitration was delivered to the representatives of the Zulu nation at the lower Tugela Drift. At the same time Cetywayo was required to introduce some modification of his administration, especially as regards military service, and to surrender certain refugees from Natal, and pay a fine for harbouring them, and for border outrages by his subjects.

The king not having complied, the further enforcement of the demands was confided to Lieut.-General Lord Chelmsford, whose forces advanced into Zululand in three columns between the 11th and 14th of January, 1879. On the 22nd of January two engagements were fought; one at Isandhlwana, the other at Inyenezane; the former with disastrous, the latter with doubtful, results to the British. On the same night part of Zulu impi crossed the Buffalo and attacked the commissariat and hospital post of Rorke's Drift, held by one company of the 24th Regiment. The post was without defences; but the officer in command, Lieut. Chard, R.E., V.C., with great rapidity and skill converted the stores themselves into a defence, and throughout the whole night, the little garrison, behind a flimsy rampart of rice bags and biscuit boxes, successfully maintained an heroic defence.

In the meantime, the northern column, under Colonel (now Sir Evelyn) Wood, continued to engage and harass the enemy. Even in this part British arms were not free from disaster at the Intombi River, and in a reconnaissance at the Hloblana Mountain; but immediately after the whole Zulu army, numbering 24,000 men, having attacked Wood's camp at Kambula Kop, suffered a severe defeat.

At the beginning of April reinforcements having begun to arrive from England and the neighbouring colonies, Lord Chelmsford advanced across the Lower Tugela to the relief of Colonel Pearson, who was shut up in Esibwe; defeated the enemy at Ginginholvo on the 2nd of April, and relieved the garrison.

The military power of the Zulu kingdom was finally broken to pieces at the battle of Ulundi on the 4th of July, and Cetywayo fled to the bush with a few followers. The people accepted their defeat with singular calmness, at once returning to their usual avocations. Chief after chief submitted, and Cetywayo himself was captured. The dynasty of Chaka was deposed, and the country was divided into thirteen districts, each under an independent Chief, holding office by the gift of the Queen of England, subject to certain conditions accepted by him; a British resident was appointed to reside in Zululand, and be the adviser of the chiefs and channel of communication between them and the British Government.

Difficulties were soon experienced in working this arrangement. Some of the chiefs quarrelled and fought with one another and with their subjects, many of whom refused to recognise their authority; while a large and influential party were anxious for the restoration of Cetywayo. Sir H. Bulwer, who had assumed the government of Natal in the early part of 1882, was specially commissioned to inquire into the whole question of the Zulu settlement. After fully considering his report, Her Majesty's Government decided to replace the ex-king over the whole country north of the Umhlatusi River, with the exception of a small territory in the north-east, which Usibepu, one of the thirteen chiefs appointed by Sir Garnet Wolseley, was allowed to retain. The territory between the Umhlatusi and the Natal frontier was constituted a native reserve, under the supervision of a British commissioner, and it was arranged that locations should be provided in this reserve for any of the Zulus who might be unwilling to again submit to the restored king. Cetywayo, who had at his own request been allowed to visit England, where the decision of the Government was communicated to him, and by him formally accepted, was re-installed by Sir Theophilus Shepstone on the 29th January, 1883, in the presence of 5,000 Zulus.

His enemies, headed by Usibepu, proved more formidable than he or others had anticipated, and after a struggle of some months he was overthrown and his kraal destroyed. He took refuge in the Reserve, where he lived practically under the care of the Resident, until the 8th of February, 1884, when he died. Soon after his death his followers, the Usutus, finding themselves no match for Usibepu, called in some Boer adventurers, with whose assistance they inflicted a crushing defeat on
Usibepu, who took refuge in the Reserve. As a reward for this service the Boers received a grant of land, in which they established the "New Republic."

Finding that the Zulu people were unable to form any orderly administration of the remaining territory, Her Majesty's Government decided, with the general assent of the Zulus, to declare their country to be British territory, which was done in May, 1887. Some disturbances occurred soon after in connection with an attempt to set up Dinuzulu, a son of Cetwayo, as king; but it was soon checked, and Dinuzulu and some of his indunas were removed to St. Helena, while others were imprisoned or fined.

On the 18th Dec., 1884, the British flag had been hoisted at St. Lucia Bay, which was ceded to the English Government by Panda in 1843. A proclamation of December, 1888, made it clear that Sordwana Point and Bay were included in Zululand. A further notification (in February, 1890), declared the districts of Fokoti, Umjindi, and Manaba, to form part of Zululand.

Law and Constitution.

The "Zulu Native Reserve" was administered from 1883 to May, 1887, by a Resident Commissioner, immediately responsible to H.M.'s Special Commissioner for Zulu affairs; and order was maintained by a force of mounted native police. This organisation was subsequently extended over the whole territory.

The Territory is at present administered through a Resident Commissioner residing at Eshowe, under the direct supervision of the Governor of Natal, who is also Governor of Zululand, and who exercises the power of legislating by proclamation. Zululand is divided into 8 magisterial districts, viz., Eshowe, Nkandhlwa, Nqutu, Entonjaneni, Lower Umfolosi, Ndwandwe, Ubombo and Hlabisa. Native law remains in force as between natives, and the tribal authority of the chiefs is not interfered with. Natal law has been proclaimed as having force, as far as applicable, in Zululand, except in certain circumstances for which special laws and regulations are provided. The occupation of land by Europeans is not allowed, except for missionary, trading, or mining purposes. A but tax of fourteen shillings per annum is levied throughout Zululand.

The seat of government is at Eshowe, where a township has been established. Another township, Melmoth, has been surveyed and laid off on private property in Entonjaneni district.

Trade and Industry.

The pursuits of the Zulus are mainly agricultural, crops of maize (mealies), and other cereals being raised round their kraals. Their individual wealth consists in cattle, of which they possess considerable numbers. They avoid the sea, and have no fishing. Trade is carried on by a few trading settlers, and by traders' wagons from Natal, which traverse the country periodically. Oxen and maize are exchanged for cotton goods and hardware. Gold has been found in the Nqutu, Nkandhlwa, and Entonjaneni districts, and several companies are being floated to work the properties taken up. The quantity of gold produced in 1894 was 667 ozs., equal in value to about £242l. 4s. 4d. Renewed interest is being taken at the Nondweni and Insuze gold fields, in Nqutu and Nkandhlwa districts, where the European population is increasing. A Deputy Commissioner of Mines for the fields has been appointed by the government. The territory is rich in minerals, such as coal, iron, copper, lead, &c.

No customs or transit dues are at present imposed upon goods entering Zululand from Natal. The importation of spirituous liquors is prohibited, except under special permit, and the supply of spirits to natives, whether by sale or otherwise, is strictly forbidden.

By special arrangement between the Natal Government and the administration of Zululand, the latter territory is treated as a part of the Colony of Natal, for the purposes of the Natal Transit Dues Law (1886), under which certain articles pass through the Colony in bond for export beyond the borders on payment of a nominal transit duty. The customs tariff on goods entering otherwise than from Natal is the same as that of Natal. An annual contribution of £1,800 is made by the Natal Government in respect of the customs duties collected on goods entering Zululand. Good wagon roads have been constructed to the magistracies in the different districts.

Main roads from Natal cross the border at Rorke's Drift, and at the lower drifts of the Tugela river; and from Zululand they cross into the South African Republic at the following points:—Nkandi, Isipezi, Eutonjaneni and Idhlebi Hilla, and near the source of the Mkuvana river.

Currency and Banking.

The currency is exclusively British sterling. There is as yet no Government savings bank. The Natal bank has opened a branch at Eshowe.

Means of Communication.

The absence of any good landing place prevents communication by sea. St. Lucia Bay, Sordwana Bay, and Port Durnford are nothing but exposed and surf-bound beaches, affording no harbour. Eshowe is in communication with Natal by telegraph (telephone 80 miles; receipts, revenue, 1893, 90l. 10s. 7½d.; expenditure, 116l. 7s. 6½d.), and by daily post-cart. A telegraph line from Eshowe to Melmoth and a line from Vant's Drift on the Natal border to the Nondweni gold fields have been opened. The parcels post is in operation to Eshowe. Post offices exist in the different districts, all in connection with Eshowe, the mails being conveyed regularly by native mail carriers. In the territory, and to Natal (Zululand, with Natal, joined the Universal Postal Union in 1892), postage rates are 1½d. per half ounce. To the Cape, Free State, and Transvaal, 2½d. per half ounce; to the United Kingdom, 2½d. The postage received on ocean carried mail matter is paid over to the Natal Government, by whom the mail steamers are subsidized.

Education.

Education is at present left to the various missionary stations, there being four different societies represented. The government contributes a grant-in-aid to a certain portion of the native schools, and it is intended to support two European schools at Melmoth and Eshowe. The total number of children on school rolls is about 15 Europeans and 1006 natives.

Population.—Estimated in 1894 about 994 Europeans; 165,121 Natives.
Finances (Zulus Reserve until 1887)

| Year | Revenue | Expenditure |
|------|---------|-------------|
| 1885 | 11,284  | 7,816       |
| 1886 | 12,225  | 10,071      |
| 1887 | 14,149  | 15,784      |
| 1888*| 32,878  | 34,094      |
| 1889 | 38,059  | 38,766      |
| 1890 | 41,674  | 29,782      |
| 1891 | 40,080  | 86,118      |
| 1892 | 42,432  | 33,953      |
| 1893 | 48,666  | 88,854      |
| 1894 | 45,592  | 43,928      |

Civil Establishment.

Governor's Department.

Governor, The Hon. Sir Walter Holy-Hutchinson, K.C.M.G., 1,000l.
Secretary for Zululand, W. E. Peachey, 200l.

Resident Commissioner.

Resident Commissioner and Chief Magistrate, Sir Marshall Clarke, K.C.M.G., 1,800l. and travelling allowance, 200l.
Government Secretary, William Windham, 400l. to 450l.
Registrar and Master of the Chief Magistrate's and High Courts, J. Windham, 300l. to 350l.
1st Clerk and Interpreter, C. A. Wheelwright, 150l. to 250l.
2nd ditto (vacant).
Storekeeper, C. W. Alexander 120l.
Supernumerary Clerk, G. V. Essery, 120l. to 150l.
Treasurer and Distributor of Stamps, Major H. Gardner, 850l. to 450l.
Clerk, V. G. Robinson, 120l. to 150l.
Legal Adviser, Crocus Prosecutor, H. O. Koch, 500l.
Sheriff, J. B. Faye, 36l.
Auditor, W. E. Goldby, 350l.
Deputy Commissioner of Mines, Nondweni, (vacant), 350l.

Resident Magistrates.

1. Nqutu District, R. H. Addison, 450l. and 50l. allowance.
   Clerk and Interpreter, C. G. Stuart, 150l. to 250l.
   European Constables, F. G. Elliot, 84l. and H. A. Elliot 84l.
   District Surgeon, H. Harper, 250.
2. Nkandhla District, J. L. Knight, 450l. and 50l. allowance.
   Clerk and Interpreter, T. B. Carbutt, 150l. to 250l.
   Constable and Messenger, R. Horaley, 84l.
3. Entonjaneni District, A. J. Shepstone, 450l. and 50l. allowance.
   Clerk and Interpreter, B. Colenbrander, 150l. to 250l.
   Constable and Messenger, H. Johnston, 84l.
   Game Conservator, D. Tweedie, 120l.
   District Surgeon, J. Petrie, 200l.

* Annexation of Zululand.

4. Ndoandhwe District, J. Y. Gibson, 450l. and 50l. allowance.
   Clerk and Interpreter, F. A. Fynney 150l. to 250l.
   District Surgeon, G. W. Walters, 250l.
5. Lower Umfolosi District, T. Maxwell, 450l. and 50l. allowance.
   Clerk and Interpreter, D. W. Wheelwright, 120l. to 150l.
   Game Conservator, S. Siverton, 120l.
6. Ubombo District, A. Hulley, 450l. and 50l. allowance.
   Clerk and Interpreter, D. Lyle, 120l. to 150l.
7. Hlabisa District, A. Boast, 450l. and 50l. allowance.
   Clerk and Interpreter, A. R. Turnbull, 150l. to 250l.
8. Esikwe District, C. R. Saunders, 450l. and 50l. allowance.
   1st Clerk and Interpreter, W. W. Barker, 150l. to 250l.
   2nd Clerk, H. McL. Brown 120l. to 150l.
   Constable and Messenger, J. B. Faye, 84l.
   Gaoler, D. Deane, 120l.
   European Turnkey, J. Pike, 120l.
   District Surgeon, J. H. Balfe, 200l., allowances, 150l.
9. Ingwavuma, J. Stuart 450l. and 50l. allowance.
   Clerk and Interpreter, G. Mor, 150l. to 250l.
   European Constable and Messenger, H. Emanuel, 120l.
   Forest Ranger, F. Evans, 120l.
   Director of Public Works and Surveys, W. Bosman, 550l.

Zululand Police.

Commandant, G. Mansel, C.M.G., 600l.
Sub-Inspectors, C. E. Pierce, J. P. Marshall, C. P. Hignett, C. C. Foxon, C. H. Gilson, 250l. to 300l. each, and Quartermaster H. H. Mayberry, 100l. to 150l.

Postmasters.

Esikwe, B. G. Smart, 24l.
Nondweni, F. M. McLeod, 12l.
Nkandhla, G. B. Carbutt.
Entonjaneni, F. Whitelaw 36l.
Iyoni, J. Stokkeland, 12l.
Rorke's Drift, R. S. Maxwell, 12l.
Lower Umfolosi, D. Wheelwright 12l.
Ulundi, A. Moore, 12l.

Telegraph Clerks.

Esikwe, B. G. Smart, 151l.
Melmoth, F. Whitelaw, 84l.
Nqutu, R. S. Maxwell, 120l.
APPENDIX TO PART II.

This Appendix gives some account of certain British Possessions and Protectorates which are not governed as Colonies, but are controlled by High Commissioners or Chartered Companies, or are otherwise in a position of dependency to the British Empire.

