THE WEST INDIES (FEDERATION)

The Federating Territories

The Federation of The West Indies which came into being in January 1958 comprises the Territories of Barbados; Jamaica (including the Cayman Islands and the Turks and Caicos Islands); the Leeward Islands of Antigua, Montserrat, and St. Christopher, Nevis and Anguilla; Trinidad and Tobago; and the Windward Islands of Grenada, Dominica, St. Lucia and St. Vincent. It does not include British Guiana, British Honduras or the Virgin Islands (Leeward Islands).

On 6th February 1962 in an announcement in the House of Commons, the Secretary of State referred to the decision of Jamaica to withdraw from the Federation and Her Majesty's Government's acceptance of this decision; the decision of Trinidad and Tobago not to participate in any federation of the Eastern Caribbean; and the fact that the Premier of Barbados and the Chief Ministers of the Leeward and Windward Islands, while advocating a new federation between their territories, were agreed that the present Federation should be dissolved. In the circumstances Her Majesty's Government had with regret reached the conclusion that they had no alternative but to arrange for the dissolution of the present Federation.

Geography and Area

The ten colonies comprising The West Indies, each consisting of one or more islands, are situated in, or on the borders of, the Caribbean Sea. Jamaica, the largest, is part of the Greater Antilles group; the remainder belong to the chain of the Lesser Antilles. The total land area of the federating territories is 8,028·8 square miles.

Population

In 1960 the estimated total population of the Federation was 3,117,370. This figure was based on the preliminary results of the population census, April 1960.

Capital

Trinidad is the seat of the Federal Capital. At present the Federal Government is in temporary quarters in Port-of-Spain.

Climate

See relevant section under unit territories.

History

The move towards political federation has developed over a long period of years and has been hastened by, among other things, the rapid improvement in air communications since the end of the second world war and the institution of joint regional organizations by the British West Indian Governments. A despatch sent to West Indian Governments in March 1945, by the late Colonel Oliver Stanley, then Secretary of State for the Colonies, stressed that "the aim of British policy should be the development of federation in the Caribbean at such time as the balance of opinion in the various Colonies is in favour of a change and when the development of communications makes it administratively practicable. The ultimate aim of any federation which may be established would be full internal self-government within the British Commonwealth." At Colonel Stanley's suggestion the idea of political federation was debated in the legislatures of all the Colonies of the region except that of the Bahamas, where the decision was taken against doing so, and, in September 1947, a Conference on Closer Association was held at Montego Bay, Jamaica, presided over by Mr. A. Creech Jones and attended by delegates and legal and financial advisers from Barbados, British Guiana, British Honduras, Jamaica, the Leeward Islands, Trinidad and Tobago and the Windward Islands. All the delegates, except those from British Guiana, accepted the principle of federation and on their recommendation a Standing Closer Association Committee was set up to work out a draft federal constitution.

That Committee, composed of 17 West Indians selected by their respective legislatures met in 1948 and 1949 and its Report (Col. No. 255, 1950) made recommendations on which the present bi-cameral Federal Legislature and Federal Executive are based. The Report was accepted, with certain reservations, by all the legislatures except those of British Guiana and the British Virgin Islands (Leewards group) which rejected them, and that of British Honduras which considered it premature for that Colony to commit itself to federation.

A further Conference on West Indian Federation held in London in April 1953, attended by West Indian and United Kingdom delegates and by observers from British Guiana and British Honduras, agreed upon a "Plan for a British Caribbean Federation" (Cmd.8895, 1953) based upon the Standing Closer Association Committee's proposals. By February 1955 this plan had been adopted by all the legislatures that debated it.

The next step was a Conference on Movement of Persons within a British Caribbean Federation held in Trinidad in March 1955 and attended by West Indian and United Kingdom delegates and an observer from British Guiana. This conference recommended that there should be the greatest possible freedom of movement within the Federation and that the control of movement between Territories should be placed on the concurrent legislative list as a matter on which both the federal legislature and the territorial legislatures should be empowered to legislate, with federal law prevailing. It also recommended that the British Government should be requested to proceed with the greatest possible speed with the completion of the preliminary measures to enable the Federation to be established. Both recommendations were accepted by all the legislatures concerned.

Later in 1955 Commissions headed by Sir Sydney Caine, Sir Hilary Blood and Sir Allan Chalmers Smith were appointed to examine respectively the Fiscal, Civil Service and Judicial aspects of Federation and their Reports were published in December 1955 (Cmd. 9618, 9619 and 9620).

The final Conference on British Caribbean Federation was held in London in February 1956 and was attended, as before, by delegates from the West Indian and United Kingdom Governments and by observers from British Guiana and British Honduras. At that Conference the decision to "be bound together in federation" was taken and it was agreed to make provision for British Guiana, British Honduras and the British Virgin Islands to be admitted later if they so wished. The "Plan for a British Caribbean Federation," (see above) was adopted, with certain modifications, as the basis for the Federal Constitution and a Standing Federation Committee was set up under the chairmanship of Sir Stephen Luke, the Comptroller...
for Development and Welfare in the West Indies, to consider further the drafting of the constitution and to make the necessary administrative preparations for the establishment of the Federal Government. The composition of the Committee was the same as that of the West Indian delegations to the Conference, i.e., three delegates from Barbados, three from Jamaica, one from each of the participating Leeward Islands, three from Trinidad and Tobago and one from each of the Windward Islands, together with two observers from British Guiana and one from British Honduras. This Committee met four times during 1956 and 1957 and under its direction a Pre-Federal Organization was set up with headquarters in Barbados and later in Trinidad.

The 1956 London Conference was unable to reach agreement on the location of the Federal Capital and on their recommendation a Fact-finding Commission was set up, under the chairmanship of Sir Francis Mudie, to visit the West Indies and make recommendations on the three most suitable sites in order of preference, bearing in mind such factors as political and social sentiment, availability of land, cost of buildings, communications and other services. The choice of the Commission (Report; Colonial No. 328, 1956) was Barbados, Jamaica and Trinidad in that order. The Standing Federation Committee, having considered this Report, decided at its meeting in January 1957 that the Capital should be situated in Trinidad.

The British Caribbean Federation Act, which received the Royal Assent on 2nd August 1956, enabled Her Majesty, by Order in Council, to provide for the federation of the colonies concerned and for the establishment of a Federal Government, a Federal Legislature, a Federal Supreme Court and other necessary Federal authorities; to provide that any appellate jurisdiction of the Federal Supreme Court should be in substitution for the jurisdiction of the West Indian Court of Appeal, and to provide for the accession of other colonies to the Federation. The Act also provided for the payment of a grant not exceeding £1,000,000 from Her Majesty's Government towards the cost of establishing the Federal Capital and for the making of further annual grants during the first ten years of federation to enable the Federal Government to assist the Governments of those federating Territories whose resources are insufficient to meet their administrative expenses. Under this Act the West Indies (Federation) Order in Council, 1957, incorporating the Federal Constitution, was made in July of that year.

At a meeting in February 1957 the Standing Federation Committee agreed that the name of the Federation should be "The West Indies". It was announced in May 1957 that Her Majesty had approved the appointment of the Right Honourable Lord Hailes, G.B.E., to be Governor-General and Commander-in-Chief of the Federation. This appointment became effective on the 1st October and Lord Hailes assumed office in Trinidad on the 3rd January 1958.

The first elections were held on 25th March 1958 in all the territories and resulted in the majority party, The West Indies Federal Labour Party, taking office.

The Federal Parliament was inaugurated on 22nd April 1958 by H.R.H. the Princess Margaret.

**Constitution**

The constitution, the interim provisions of which came into force in January 1958 provides for a bi-cameral Legislature comprising a Senate and a House of Representatives. The Senate is composed of 19 members appointed by the Governor-General on a basis of Territorial representation after consultation with the Governors of the Territories represented. A President and Vice-President are elected by the Senate from among its members. After each successive period of five years all Senators vacate their seats, but their terms of office are not affected by a dissolution of the Federal Legislature. The House of Representatives consists of 45 members elected by adult suffrage in the federating Territories. The House elects a Speaker either from among its members or from among other persons and a Deputy Speaker from among its members. A person appointed to the Senate or elected to the House of Representatives who is already a member of a Territorial Legislature or Executive Council may not take part in the proceedings of the Senate or House of Representatives until he has ceased to be a member of the Territorial Legislature or Executive Council and if he has not ceased to be such a member at the expiration of 21 days he vacates his seat in the Federal Legislature. The Federal Legislature is dissolved by the Governor-General after a period of not more than five years from the date when the House of Representatives first meets after a General Election.

The powers of the Senate to prevent the passage of legislation are restricted in that, in certain circumstances, a Bill may be presented to the Governor-General for assent notwithstanding that the Senate has not consented to the Bill. When a Bill is presented to the Governor-General he may assent to it, refuse to assent or reserve it for Her Majesty's pleasure. The Federal Legislature has power to make laws on any matter included in the Exclusive Legislative List or Concurrent Legislative List scheduled under the Constitution. Territorial Legislatures have power to make laws on any matter included in the Concurrent Legislative List, but in general will not have such power with respect to matters included in the Exclusive Legislative List. In cases of inconsistency between Federal and Territorial laws, Federal law prevails.

The constitution enables Her Majesty to legislate by Order in Council for the Federation for the purposes of defence and external relations.

Originally the Federal Executive consisted of a Governor-General appointed by Her Majesty and a Council of State consisting of a Prime Minister elected by the House of Representatives and ten other Ministers appointed by the Governor-General on the advice of the Prime Minister. However, on the 16th August 1960 the Cabinet system of Government was introduced following the amendment to the Constitution by the Constitution of the West Indies (Amendment) Order in Council, 1960, the relevant provisions of which came into operation on that date. The Cabinet consists of the Prime Minister and such number of other Ministers appointed from the two chambers of the Federal Legislature as the Prime Minister may decide, of whom not less than two shall be members of the Senate, and the new provisions provide that the Governor-General shall appoint as Prime Minister the member of the House of Representatives who, in his judgment, is best able to command the confidence of the majority party in the House. The Governor-General may, in accordance with the advice of the Prime Minister, assign to any Minister responsibility for dealing with any
business on behalf of the Federal Government, but is not obliged to do so in respect of defence, the audit of Federal accounts or the appointment, dismissal or disciplinary control of officers in the Federal Public Service.

The general direction and control of the Government is vested in the Cabinet which is collectively responsible to the Federal Legislature, and in the performance of his functions the Governor-General is required to act in accordance with the advice of the Cabinet or a Minister acting under the general authority of the Cabinet where he is authorised to act in his discretion or in accordance with the recommendation or advice of some other person's authority. Where the Governor-General is authorised to act in his discretion in the performance of any function, he is required to act in accordance with any constitutional conventions applicable to the exercise of any similar function by Her Majesty in the United Kingdom.

The constitution provides for a Federal Supreme Court, consisting of a Chief Justice and three or more Federal Justices appointed by the Governor-General in his discretion after consultation with the Prime Minister, and contains provision regarding the jurisdiction of the Court. The constitution also provides for a Public Service Commission to advise the Governor-General on the appointment, dismissal and disciplinary control of Federal public officers. The Commission consists of a Chairman and between two and four members appointed by the Governor-General in his discretion. When the remaining provisions of the 1960 Order in Council come into operation the Chief Justice will be appointed by the Governor-General after consultation with the Prime Minister and the other justices by him acting on the recommendation of Judicial Service Commission; and the power to appoint and dismiss public officers, other than overseas officers, and to exercise disciplinary control over them will be vested in the Governor-General acting on the recommendation of the Public Service Commission. In the case of overseas officers the like power will be exercised by the Governor-General after consultation with the Prime Minister. A Public Service Appeals Board will also be established.

The provisions for amendment of the Constitution by Order in Council include provision for amendment for the purpose of including other Colonies within the Federation. There is provision for review of the Constitution not later than the fifth anniversary of the date on which it came into force.

Public Finance

The main source of Federal revenue is an annual levy upon the Territorial Governments—the maximum annual amount of which ($9,120,000—equivalent to £1,900,000) is based on an estimate by Sir Sydney Caine, pre-Federal Fiscal Commissioner (Report—Cmd. 9618, 1955) of the yield that might be expected if Federal customs and excise duties were levied on certain commodities at certain rates. No Federal income tax (except tax on emoluments paid from Federal funds) may be levied. Under the terms of the Constitution the Federal Legislature may make laws with regard to customs and excise duties but the Federal Government may only retain the revenue from duties levied under any such law on certain scheduled commodities and, during the first five years, at certain scheduled rates. Moreover, during the first five years, Federal revenue obtained from the Territorial levy and from any customs and excise duties on the scheduled commodities may not together exceed the sum of $9,120,000, any excess actually raised having to be returned to the Territorial Governments.

The Federal Government has assumed the responsibilities hitherto undertaken by the Comptroller for Development and Welfare in the West Indies for the administration of grants made under the Colonial Development and Welfare Acts for regional development schemes and for advising the Secretary of State on applications from individual Territories for assistance under the Acts. In addition, since the 1st January 1959, it has assumed responsibility for the administration of grants-in-aid to those territories (at present Antigua, Montserrat, Dominica, Grenada, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Turks and Caicos Islands) whose resources are insufficient to meet the ordinary expenses of administration. This assistance is provided from a block grant of £8,750,000 by Her Majesty's Government for the five-year period 1959-63. Grants for this purpose have hitherto been paid direct by Her Majesty's Government to the Territories concerned.

The Federal Government has also received a grant of $10 million (Can.) from the Canadian Government for economic development purposes as well as technical and other forms of assistance from the United States International Co-operation Administration and the United Nations.

Communications

Civil Aviation

The larger islands of The West Indies are served by a number of international airlines which link the Caribbean with North and South America and Europe. British West Indian Airways (B.W.I.A.) maintain regular services linking the Territories with each other as well as with New York, Miami and Venezuela. The Leeward Islands Air Transport Company, a subsidiary of British West Indian Airways has, as a result of the cessation of operations by the St. Vincent Government Airways, extended its operations to include the Leeward and Windward Islands and Barbados.

A Commission under the Chairmanship of Sir Frederick Tymms, K.C.I.E., M.C., F.R.Ae.S., was appointed to examine and make recommendations on the whole question of Civil Aviation in The West Indies. The report of the Commission is under consideration by the various Governments.

The Federal Civil Aviation Adviser assumed duties early in 1961 and has been primarily occupied in considering the implementation of the proposals contained in the Tymms Report.

Shipping

The area is served regularly by several international passenger and cargo ships and by intra-regional vessels of small tonnage.

A statutory body to be known as The West Indies Shipping Corporation was established to operate and maintain a regular shipping service between all the territories of the Federation provided by the two ships, "Federal Maple" and "Federal Palm", which were given to the Federation by the Canadian Government. The vessels are each of 3,200 tons gross (1,634 tons net) and provide accommodation for 50 cabin
class passengers and 200 economy class passengers each. Management of the vessels is undertaken by Messrs. Furness, Withy & Co. Ltd.

A survey of inter-territorial freight rates with specific reference to the Federal Government Shipping Service has been undertaken by Professor B. S. Keirstead and Mrs. Kari Levitt through the good offices of the University College of the West Indies. Their report is being studied by the Federal Government.

A Chief Technical Officer (Maritime Services) was appointed during the latter half of 1961 and has been attached to the Federal Ministry of Communications and Works. His duties include liaison with the West Indies Shipping Corporation and advising the Federal Government on all maritime matters, e.g. Regional Lighthouse Service, port and harbour development and Merchant Shipping Legislation, etc.

**Meteorology**

The West Indies Meteorological Service at present embraces all Unit Territories of the Federation as well as the Bahamas, British Guiana, British Honduras and the British Virgin Islands. There are main meteorological offices at Nassau (Bahamas), Palisadoes Airport (Jamaica) and Piarco Airport (Trinidad); and supplementary offices at Seawell Airport (Barbados), Pearls Airport (Grenada), Arnos Vale (St. Vincent) and Stanley Field (British Honduras). Offices are expected to be opened during 1962 at Montego Bay (Jamaica) and Coolidge Field (Antigua). Full-time observing staff is being recruited in British Guiana.

The main output of the forecaster training facility established in Trinidad with the assistance of the United States Operations Mission will become operationally available in October 1962. A programme of advanced training in the United Kingdom will be completed in 1963. Opportunities for rapid advancement exist in this field for a limited number of university graduates with good degrees in mathematics or physics.

**Telecommunications**

The Territories of the Federation are linked by cable, radio telegraph and radio telephone. Cable & Wireless (West Indies) Ltd. have installed a multi-channel tropospheric scatter link between Trinidad and Barbados and have brought into service a network of VHF circuits covering the other Territories. Improved HF communications with Jamaica have recently been introduced. Plans have been announced for large capacity submarine cables to be laid between Florida, Jamaica, Curacao and Trinidad. International Aeradio (Caribbean) Ltd. have a multi-channel VHF system running up through the islands with connections to Puerto Rico which mainly serves aeronautical purposes.

**Works**

A Chief Technical Officer (Works) was appointed in July 1961 to the staff of the Federal Ministry of Communications and Works. His duties include advising the Government on all Works matters, including the type of technical and professional assistance which may be made available to the Federation, particularly the Windward and Leeward Islands. In addition, he will be required to sponsor a number of activities designed to raise the standards of building and engineering practices generally in The West Indies.

**Trade and Industry**

Total domestic exports of the Federation in 1960 amounted to W.I.$847 million and imports to W.I.$1,035 million. Petroleum and petroleum products from Trinidad and bauxite and alumina from Jamaica account for over half the exports; the respective figures in 1960 being W.I.$375 million, W.I.$52 million and W.I.$79 million. Other exports consist mainly of primary agricultural commodities, including sugar and rum, bananas, citrus, cocoa, coffee and Sea Island cotton. The principal imports are food, clothing and footwear, mineral fuels, machinery and transport equipment. Foodstuffs account for between one-fifth and one-third of the total value of imports.

The main trading partners of the Federation are the U.K., Canada and the U.S.A., in descending order of importance. About 32% of all imports come from the U.K. and 35% of all exports go there.

Despite the great importance of petroleum and bauxite, the economy of the Federation is still largely agricultural, and agriculture is the main field of employment in most of the Territories. In addition to growing tropical crops for home consumption and export, emphasis is now being placed on the development of the livestock and fishing industries both in order to provide relatively cheap sources of protein for the local population as well as to reduce the dependence of the Federation upon imported supplies of milk, meat and fish. Efforts are also being made to diversify the economy by developing secondary industries and all Territories offer a wide range of fiscal and other incentives to attract outside capital to the area. In Barbados, Jamaica and Trinidad there are Industrial Development Corporations to assist and facilitate the would-be industrialist. Antigua has an Industrial Development Board with similar functions.

The industrialization programme is most advanced in Jamaica and Trinidad. In Jamaica there is the large scale mining of bauxite and production of alumina. Trinidad has large petroleum and asphalt refineries; it is also the home of Angostura Bitters. Both territories have breweries and factories producing cement, textiles, clothing, cigarettes, matches, plastic products, leather, footwear and other goods for domestic consumption. Other important secondary industries include gypsum products, confectionery, phonograph records, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, soap, cooking fats and pottery. In Jamaica there are factories which cater solely for export, producing such articles as woollen blankets, baseball gloves and sports shirts. Fertilizers are manufactured in Trinidad; and throughout the area industrial undertakings of varying sizes are being planned or executed.

Tourism is of great and growing importance and special incentive legislation exists in all the Territories to encourage the building of hotels. There were an estimated 411,000 visitors in 1960 and the estimated receipts from tourism for that year were W.I.$67 million.

**Assumption by Federal Government of functions of former Regional Organizations**

The Regional Economic Committee ceased to exist at the end of 1957, its functions being taken over by the Federal Government. The duties formerly performed by the secretariat of the
Regional Economic Committee were distributed between the various Federal Ministries or Departments concerned.

The Regional Council of Ministers, which was set up by the Standing Federation Committee in May 1957 to consider matters in the economic sphere of common interest to the territories of the Federation and to other British Caribbean territories, was reconstituted in January 1959 with an agreed Constitution and Rules of Procedure. It has met once in 1959 and once in 1960.

The Federal Government has now established consultative machinery in the field of Natural Resources and Agriculture. The Regional Natural Resources Council held its Third Meeting in Jamaica on the 6th and 7th March 1961. This Council is presided over by the Federal Minister of Natural Resources and Agriculture and its members consist of Ministers of Agriculture or their equivalent in territorial Governments, British Guiana and British Honduras. The Regional Natural Resources Council is supported by an official Standing Committee on Agriculture, Animal Health and Husbandry, Fisheries and Forestry and a Regional Research Committee. These Committees in turn have created various subsidiary bodies, e.g. the Veterinary Sub-Committee, the Economics and Marketing Sub-Committee, the Fisheries Research Sub-Committee.

The Development and Welfare Organisation was set up in 1940, as a result of the recommendations of the West India Royal Commission (Cmd. 6607); its primary function was to work out, in collaboration with local governments, long-term programmes of social reform and schemes of development and welfare for which grants from United Kingdom funds under the Colonial Development and Welfare Acts might be recommended. Many of the functions of the Organisation, which ceased to operate on 31st March 1958 have been taken over by the Federal Government, which maintains a full cadre of advisers, whose services are available on request to the governments of the federated territories, and also to non-federated territories in the British Caribbean. These functions include the provision of the chairmanship and secretariat services for the Regional Labour Board, which controls the various government schemes for assisting the employment of West Indian workers in the U.S.A. and supervises the work of the British West Indian Labour Organisation in New York; the chairmanship and secretariat facilities for the Standing Advisory Committee on Medical Research; and the provision of facilities for other standing or ad hoc regional conferences.

CABINET

Sir Grantley Adams, C.M.G., Q.C. (Prime Minister).
C. G. D. La Corbiniere (Minister of Trade and Industry).
R. L. Bradshaw (Minister of Finance).
W. Andrew Rose (Minister of Communications and Works).
F. B. Ricketts (Minister of Natural Resources and Agriculture).
Mrs. P. B. S. Allfrey (Minister of Labour and Social Affairs).
N. H. Richards (Minister without portfolio).
V. B. Vaughan (Minister without portfolio).
Senator J. W. Liburd (Minister without portfolio).
Senator J. L. Charles (Minister without portfolio).
Senator A. G. R. Byfield (Minister without portfolio).
Secretary—F. A. Phillips.

SENATE

President—Dr. A. S. Cato.
Vice-President—J. B. Renwick, C.B.E.,
17 other members.
(Of the total of 19 members, there are 2 for each Territory except Montserrat, which has 1.)
Clerk.—D. F. Mayers.

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Speaker—E. R. L. Ward.
Deputy Speaker—L. Radix.
45 elected members (among whom the Speaker may be included and the Deputy Speaker is included).

Antigua . . . 2
Barbados . . . 5
Dominica . . . 2
Grenada . . . 2
Jamaica . . . 17
Montserrat . . . 1 (and one alternate member)
St. Christopher-Nevis-
Anguilla . . . 2
St. Lucia . . . 2
St. Vincent . . . 2
Trinidad and Tobago 10
Clerk—G. E. L. Laforest.

CIVIL ESTABLISHMENT

GOVERNOR-GENERAL and COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF—The Rt. Hon. Lord Hailes, G.B.E.
Deputy Governor-General—Sir John Mordecai, C.M.G.
Secretary to the Governor-General—M. S. Staveley, C.B.E.
Private Secretary—D. Hamilton.
Aide-de-Camp—Lt. C. de Montagnac.

Federal Financial Secretary—(Vacant).
Deputy Federal Financial Secretary—E. C. Waterman.
Defence Officer—D. J. G. Rose, M.B.E.
Permanent Secretary, Prime Minister's Department—F. D. C. Williams, C.M.G.
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs—O. E. Henry.
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Trade and Industry—P. W. C. Burke.
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Natural Resources and Agriculture—C. J. Burgess.
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Communications and Works—G. V. Mancini, O.B.E.
Secretary to the Cabinet—F. A. Phillips.
Federal Accountant-General—J. Bully, M.B.E.
Federal Personnel Officer—J. C. D. Malone.
Federal Establishment Officer—C. Ahwai, M.B.E.
Senior Assistant Secretaries:
Office of the Deputy Governor-General—D. S. Brookes.
Ministry of Natural Resources and Agriculture—V. C. Josse, M.B.E.
Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs—S. Moosai-Maharaj.
Ministry of Communications and Works—J. F. Horsham.
Prime Minister's Department—C. R. C. Springer.
Ministry of Trade and Industry—E. S. Gittens, O.B.E.
Ministry of Finance—K. G. Augier.
Agricultural Adviser—A. F. MacKenzie, C.M.G.
Banking Adviser—T. H. A. Picking.
Chief Technical Officer—C. L. U. Knight.
Senior Economist—(Vacant).
Education Adviser—R. N. Murray.
Fisheries Adviser—E. Hess.
Forestry Adviser—(Vacant)
Federal Information Officer—W. A. Richardson, O.B.E.

Law Officers:
Attorney-General—H. L. Da Costa, C.M.G., Q.C.
Solicitor-General—D. A S.de Freitas.
Assistant Attorney-General—S. S. Rampal.
Legal Draftsmen—F. O. C. Harris; K. C. McMillan.
Marketing Adviser—Major H. C. Biggs.
Medical Adviser—H. P. S. Gillette, O.B.E.
Chairman, Public Service Commission—L. N. Blache-Fraser, C.M.G.
Economic Development Adviser—N. Heilpern.
Health Education Adviser—Miss F. Williamson.
Liaison Officer for Research and Development of Animal Husbandry—D. E. Faulkner.
Director, The W.I. Meteorological Service—K. V. W. Nicholls.
Deputy Director, The W.I. Meteorological Service—J. A. Channon.
Organisation and Methods Adviser—E. H. Hollis.
Postal Services Adviser—E. A. Driver.
Director of Standards—P. A. Aldworth.
Federal Statistician—M. Milliken.
National Income Statistician—(Vacant).
Vital Statistics Officer—(Vacant).
Telecommunications Adviser—C. F. Perryman.
Civil Aviation Adviser—R. S. S. Dickinson.

JUDICIARY
Chief Justice—Sir Stanley Gomes.
Federal Justices—C. V. H. Archer; A. M. Lewis; C. Wylie, M.B.E., E.D.; J. F. Marnan, M.B.E.
Registrar, Federal Supreme Court—R. V. Mcl. Clarke.

Overseas Commissions
Commissioner for The West Indies, British Guiana and British Honduras in the United Kingdom (London)—Sir Garnet Gordon, C.B.E., Q.C.
Commissioner for The West Indies, British Guiana and British Honduras in Canada (Montreal)—C. R. Stollmeyer, C.B.E.
Assistant Secretary (Vice-Consul), Venezuela (Caracas)—S. S. Lutchman.
Liaison Officer, Students Service, U.S.A.—W. A. R. Walker.

Common Institutions and Services shared by the Territories of Antigua, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and The Virgin Islands

Police
These eight territories share a single advisory Police Service Commission which is composed of one member from each territory except, for the present, the Virgin Islands. Each member of the Commission is appointed by the Administrator after consulting his Chief Minister and the members of the Commission elect their own Chairman. The Commission also has discretion to invite to its meetings persons with knowledge of possible candidates from outside the eight territories. The function of the Commission is to advise the Administrators in exercising their discretionary power to appoint, dismiss, promote and exercise disciplinary control over gazetted ranks in each Police Force.

Judiciary
A Supreme Court and a Court of Appeal for the above eight territories were established by Order in Council in 1939. Fresh provision regarding those Courts was made by an Order in Council of 1959, which also provided for the establishment of a Judicial and Legal Service Commission composed of the Chief Justice of the Joint Supreme Court of the Leeward and Windward Islands, a Federal Justice, a Judge or ex-Judge of a Superior Court of any part of Her Majesty's Dominions and the Chairmen of two of the advisory Public Service Commissions in the territories concerned.

Judges of the Supreme Court (other than the Chief Justice) are appointed by the Governor-General of The West Indies on the recommendation of the Commission. The Chief Justice is appointed by the Governor-General after consultation with the Federal Chief Justice. Judges are removed from office only if the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council advises removal for inability or misbehaviour. The Judicial and Legal Service Commission advises the Administrators on the appointment, etc. of magistrates, registrars and law officers. The expenses of the Joint Courts (including the emoluments of Judges) and the Commission are borne by the eight territories in proportions specified in the Courts Order in Council of 1959 and the sums required to meet these expenses are charged on the revenue of each territory by the Order in Council.

The Federal Supreme Court constituted by Article 73 of the Constitution of The West Indies also has certain original and appellate jurisdiction in respect of these Territories.

Other Common Institutions
A common audit system prevails in the eight territories. A number of specialist services are shared by various of the territories by administrative arrangement.

Antigua
The area of Antigua is 108 square miles, the Dependency of Barbuda 62 square miles, the Dependency of Redonda (uninhabited) half a square mile. Barbuda lies 25 miles to the north, Redonda 25 miles to the south-west of the main island.
Population

The population at the 1946 census numbered 41,757; preliminary results of the April 1960 census give the population as 54,354.

Principal Town

St. John's, the capital, has a population of about 12,500.

Geographical Features

The western part of the island of Antigua is composed entirely of volcanic rocks (highest point Boggy Peak, 1,330 feet). The eastern and northern parts are of limestone, below 500 feet above sea level, and a central plain stretches diagonally across the island. Barbuda is very flat with a large lagoon on the west side. There are no rivers.

History

The first settlers were a few English who arrived in 1632. In 1663 Charles II made a formal grant to Lord Willoughby, who at once proceeded to send out large numbers of colonists. For a short time the island was in French occupation, but in 1667 it was declared an English possession in terms of the Treaty of Breda and has remained British from that date.

Constitution

Following decisions taken at a Constitutional Conference in London in June 1959, a new constitution came into force on 1st January 1960. The main features are:

(a) The post of Governor is abolished and the Administrator has become Her Majesty's Representative in the Territory. The Administrator is now appointed by Her Majesty and exercises such of the former powers of the Governor as have been retained under the new constitution (these powers are considerably reduced under the new constitution);

(b) The Executive Council has the general control and direction of the government of the Territory. It is presided over by the Administrator and there are one ex officio member (the principal law officer) and five unofficial members (including the Chief Minister and three other Ministers). Of these the four Ministers are appointed from the elected members of the Legislative Council and the other unofficial member is appointed from either the elected or the Nominated members of the Legislative Council. The Administrator appoints as Chief Minister the member of the Legislative Council who, in his judgment, is most likely to command a majority in the Legislative Council. The other unofficial members are appointed by the Administrator on the advice of the Chief Minister. Ministers are assigned responsibility for any Government business (including financial matters) except criminal proceedings, internal security, the audit of public accounts and the public service;

(c) The Legislative Council is composed of one ex officio member (the principal law officer), two Nominated members appointed by the Administrator in his discretion and ten members elected by universal adult suffrage. It is presided over by a Speaker elected by the Council either from within or without the Council; and having only a casting vote. There is a Deputy Speaker elected from within the Council;

(d) The appointment, dismissal and disciplinary control of public officers is vested in the Administrator in his discretion acting after consultation with an advisory Public Service Commission. The Administrator is also responsible in his discretion for appointing the Head of the joint Police Force of Antigua, Montserrat and the Virgin Islands, and for appointing gazetted ranks of the joint Police Force after consulting the single advisory Police Service Commission which has been established to serve the territories of Antigua, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Virgin Islands. Further details about the Police Service Commission and about the Judiciary are given on page 174.

Land Policy

Land may not be alienated or leased to aliens without the consent of the Administrator in Council. Except in a few cases, alien occupation of land is confined to leases for not more than 99 years. There is a small amount of Crown land which, when not used for public purposes, may be leased or sold.

Taxation

The main forms of taxation are income tax, trade tariffs and excise duties. The rates of individual income tax range from 2½ cents to 65 cents per $ of chargeable income. Company tax is 40% of chargeable income.

Provision has been made for double taxation relief with the United Kingdom, Canada, New Zealand, Sweden, Denmark, Norway and the U.S.A., and consideration is being given to extending the arrangements to other countries.

Public Finance

| Year | Revenue ($000 B.W.I.) | Expenditure ($000 B.W.I.) |
|------|-----------------------|--------------------------|
| 1956 | ..                    | 6,183                    |
| 1957 | ..                    | 7,652                    |
| 1958 | ..                    | 8,788                    |
| 1959 | ..                    | 7,511                    |
| 1960 | ..                    | 7,944                    |

In 1960 $452,538 of revenue was derived from fees of court, etc. and $2,221,000 from Customs duties.

The main heads of expenditure were: Agriculture $325,000, Health $1,035,783, Public Works Recurrent $839,550 and Education $570,270.

Provision is made for a grant by Her Majesty's Government in aid of the Colony.

Currency

The currency is issued by the Board of the Commissioners of Currency, British Caribbean Territories (Eastern group) consisting of Barbados, British Guiana, the Leeward Islands, Trinidad and Tobago and the Windward Islands. Currency notes are of denominations $1, $2, $5, $10, $20 and $100, and coins of 50 cents, 25 cents, 10 cents, 5 cents, 2 cents and 1 cent. The West Indian $ has a fixed equivalent value of 4s. 2d., that is $4·80 to £1 sterling.

Development Plans

Antigua was originally allocated £499,000 under the Colonial Development and Welfare Act of 1945. There were further allocations of £210,000 between 1952 and 1955, of £680,000 in 1955,
£95,000 in 1958 and £680,000 in 1959, making £2,164,000 in all. The current development planning period ends in 1964.

**Education**

There are 34 Government elementary (primary and post-primary) schools and thirteen recognized private schools, with a total enrolment of 13,127 pupils. The seven secondary schools—four grant-aided, two denominational and one private—have a total enrolment of 1,928 pupils. A Teachers' Training College accommodates 22 resident female teachers and 19 non-resident male teachers. The graduation standard from this college approximates to that of the Teachers' Training Colleges of the larger British Caribbean Colonies. There are 14 students: 3 studying in the United Kingdom, 2 in Canada, 3 in the United States and 6 at the University College of the West Indies in Jamaica. Government expenditure on education in 1960 was $570,270.

**Libraries**

The Public Library in St. John's has a book stock of 27,645 volumes. Library services have recently been established in the rural areas.

**Health**

The expenditure on medical and allied services in 1960 was $1,035,783 compared with $86,318 spent in 1935. In 1960 the Hospital (180 beds) treated 3,552 cases. Apart from the dispensaries maintained at the residences of District Medical Officers, there are three health centres and 14 dispensaries.

**Communications**

Coolidge Airfield, which was constructed by the American Army Air Force as a military airfield in 1942, is now used by the local Government as a civil airfield. It is used mainly by Pan American Airways, British West Indian Airways, Trans-Canada Airlines and B.O.A.C. with direct services to other West Indian Islands and to the United States of America. Travel to other parts of the world is made by connexions from Trinidad, Jamaica and America. One runway was extended in December 1961 to accommodate a jet service.

There are 68 miles of main roads and 90 miles of secondary roads.

**Principal Occupations**

The principal occupations are agricultural. In 1959 about 48% of employed persons were engaged in sugar production.

**Main Crops and Products**

The main crops and products are sugar and cotton.

**Trade**

| Year | Imports $000 B.W.I. | Domestic Exports $000 B.W.I. | Re-exports $000 B.W.I. |
|------|---------------------|-------------------------------|-----------------------|
| 1956 | 10,417              | 6,193                         | 86                    |
| 1957 | 11,438              | 6,983                         | 200                   |
| 1958 | 13,437              | 5,701                         | 310                   |
| 1959*| 13,202              | 4,818                         | 379                   |
| 1960*| 15,200              | 4,395                         | 554                   |

* Estimated.

**Principal Exports by Quantity and Value**

| Item     | 1938 | 1959 | 1960 |
|----------|------|------|------|
| Sugar    | tons |      |      |
|          | 20,844 | 29,319 | 18,764 |
| Cotton   | lb.  |      |      |
|          | 174,842 | 378,368 | 378,801 |
| Molasses | gals.(000) |      |      |
|          | 1,054 | 1,518 | 270 |
|          | $000 |      |      |
|          | 55   | 151  | 27  |

The chief imports are food, apparel, cotton piece-goods, timber and non-edible oils.

**EXECUTIVE COUNCIL**

The Administrator.
D. K. McIntyre (Attorney-General).
V. C. Bird, Chief Minister (Minister of Finance).
L. Hurst (Minister of Trade, Production and Labour).
E. H. Lake (Minister of Social Services).
E. E. Williams (Minister of Public Works and Communications).
McC. B. George (Member without portfolio).

**LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL**

Speaker—D. W. Hurst.
Attorney-General. Ex officio.
10 Elected Members.
2 Nominated Unofficial Members.
Clerk—F. A. Clarke.

**CIVIL ESTABLISHMENT**

Administrator—I. G. Turbott.
Financial Secretary—K. E. Bohne.
Accountant General—A. A. Caines.
Deputy Chief Accountant—E. G. K. Challenger.
Director of Agriculture—L. A. Thomas (Ag.)
Asst. Peasant Development Officer—R. A. Baynes.
Labour Commissioner—C. A. Rodgers.
Law Officer—D. K. McIntyre, Attorney-General.
Registrar and Provost Marshal—E. L. Creque (Ag.).
Medical Superintendent—C. E. S. Bailey, M.B.E.
Senior Medical Officer—K. H. Uitley.
Surgeon—K. I. M. Heath.
Medical Officer, Institutions—H. A. A. Tomlinson.
Postmaster—S. L. Walling.
Keeper of Prisons and Superintendent of Training School—J. O. M. Swift.
Collector of Customs—E. O. A. Pestaina.
Director of Public Works—A. T. Wason.
Commissioner of Income Tax—E. G. O'M. Berridge.

**Barbados**

**Area, etc.**

Barbados is the most easterly of the Caribbean islands. Its total area is 166 square miles.

**Population**

The preliminary results of the 1960 census show the population to be 232,100 to the nearest hundred.

**Principal Town**

Bridgetown, the capital, is the only town. Before the 1960 census its population was estimated at about 11,304.
Geographical Features

The Island is comparatively flat, rising in a series of tablelands marked by well-defined terraces to the highest point (1,104 feet) at Mount Hillaby. The north-east corner of the Island, the Scotland area, is broken country, much eroded and rather barren. The formation of the rest of the Island is coral limestone. There are no rivers, but deep gullies which fill with water during heavy rain have cut their way through the coral terraces in many places. Indigenous forest covers about 46 acres.

Climate

The climate is extremely pleasant. North-easterly trade winds blow steadily from December to June but during the remainder of the year, the wet season, the wind moves to the south-east and is less strong, resulting in humid, hotter conditions. The average temperature is 79-8°. The rainfall is very varied; in the high central district the yearly average is 75 inches while in some of the low-lying coastal areas the average is 50 inches.

History

Uncertainty remains on some points in the early history of Barbados and differing versions have appeared from time to time. The brief account which follows is based on what is taken to be the most authentic version.

As far as is known the original inhabitants were the Arawak Indians who migrated from the mainland of South America. When they arrived is not known, but relics of their occupation down to the latter years of the sixteenth century have been discovered in various parts of the Island. By the time the English settlers came they had disappeared, partly through Carib raids from the neighbouring islands, and partly through the Spaniards who deported them to work in the mines of Hispaniola.

In spite of the belief to the contrary, there is no satisfactory evidence that the Olive Branch under Captain Catlin ever touched at Barbados when it was driven off its course from England to the River Wiapoco settlement in 1605 and fetched up at St. Lucia. The first Englishman to visit Barbados may have been Captain Simon Gordan, who claimed that he had landed some time before the settlement of 1627 and had found the Island uninhabited. He may, however, have been on a ship under the command of Sir Thomas Warner that visited sometime between 1620 and 1624 and found the Island suffering from such a severe drought that the latter preferred settlement of his colonists at St. Kitts. In 1624 or early 1625 a ship, belonging to Sir William Courteen and under the command of Captain John Powell, touched at Barbados, when en route from Pernambuco to England; some men were landed who erected a cross and on a tree nearby inscribed "James K. of E. and of this Island." On receiving Powell's information about Barbados Sir William Courteen fitted out an expedition to the Island under the command of his informant; but Powell, who carried letters of marque, captured a Spanish or Portuguese prize and returned with it to Cowes in 1626. Courteen then fitted out a second expedition and in February, 1627, the William and John under the command of Captain Henry Powell—Captain John Powell's younger brother—landed 80 settlers. During 1627 and 1628 the colony grew rapidly and by the end of 1628 it was claimed that Courteen had planted 1,850 settlers. The Earl of Carlisle obtained a grant from Charles I for all the Caribbean islands and landed settlers in 1628. After his death his son leased the Island in 1647 for 21 years to Lord Willoughby of Parham who assumed the government of the Island and during the Civil War held it for the Royalists until his capitulation to the Cromwellian fleet in 1652. A Governor was appointed by the Commonwealth in place of Lord Willoughby and at the Restoration the claims of the Carlisle Patent were revived. An agreement was reached by which the Patent was surrendered to the Crown for compensation in the form of 4½% duty on exports. This duty was a continual source of complaint but was not abolished until 1838 by Act of Imperial Parliament. The importance of the agreement, however, is that it marked the end of proprietary rule. Since its settlement Barbados has been a possession of Great Britain.

Constitution

Barbados has one of the oldest constitutions in the Commonwealth and one in which conventions play an important part. Amendments to the constitution providing for full internal self-government came into operation on the 16th October 1961.

The Legislature consists of the Governor; an Upper House—The Legislative Council—consisting of members (usually about 15) appointed by Her Majesty; and a Lower House—the House of Assembly—consisting of 24 members elected by universal adult suffrage. Members of the Legislative Council may be appointed for periods of up to 15 years but are normally appointed for five years at a time. The life of a House of Assembly is limited to five years.

The revised Constitutional Instruments include provision for a change in name of the Executive Council to the Privy Council; formal provision for the Cabinet; and the establishment of Judicial and Legal Service, Public Service and Police Service Commissions with executive powers to deal with appointments, dismissals and disciplinary control of members of the services for which they are responsible.

The Privy Council consists of the Governor, the Attorney-General and other members (at present three) appointed by her Majesty. It advises the Governor in the exercise of the Royal Prerogative of Mercy and in the exercise of his disciplinary powers over members of the Public Service and the Police Service who may appeal to the Privy Council against disciplinary action taken against them.

The Executive Committee consists of the Governor, the Attorney-General, not less than one member of the Legislative Council (at present one) and not less than four members of the House of Assembly (at present six). Since most of the powers and functions of the Governor-in-Executive Committee have been delegated to Ministers or to the Cabinet, the Executive Committee now survives for a limited number of largely formal functions only.

The Cabinet consists of the Premier and not less than five other Ministers (at present six) appointed by the Governor on the advice of the Premier, and it is the principal instrument of policy.

The Governor appoints as Premier the person who appears to him to be best able to command a majority in the House of Assembly. On the Premier's advice the Governor also appoints other Ministers who become the members of the
Executive Committee appointed from the House of Assembly, and a Minister without Portfolio who becomes the member of the Executive Committee appointed from the Legislative Council.

Land Policy

The systems of land tenure are similar to those of the United Kingdom.

Taxation

Income tax is the main form of direct taxation. The tax rates range from 3 cents on every complete $ of taxable income up to $500, to 75 cents on every complete $ of taxable income beyond $24,000. Tax is not paid on incomes below $800 per annum in the case of single individuals and $1,400 in the case of married persons. A wife's earned income allowance not exceeding $300 is granted. Deductions from taxable income of $270 to $600, varying according to the age of the child, are allowed for children and $240 for other dependants, in the latter case not exceeding two. Deductions are also permitted in respect of life insurances paid. Medical expenses may be deducted in excess of $20 but not exceeding in the aggregate $100, in the case of a tax-payer of married status, or $50 in the case of any other person, plus $25 for each child, not exceeding two. Companies pay a flat rate of 40%. The rate for life assurance companies and building societies is the average paid by an individual with a taxable income of $4,800.

A non-cumulative system of Pay As You Earn is in operation.

Estate duties range from 1% on estates exceeding $4,800 and not exceeding $14,400 to 30% on estates over $1,920,000. In addition, succession duty ranges from 1% between $96 and $2,400 to 2% of values exceeding $9,600 where the successor is a lineal descendant or ancestor and from 2% to 10% where the successor is a stranger.

Entertainment tax is charged on certain forms of entertainment.

The other main forms of taxation are the Customs tariffs and excise duty on rum production.

Public Finance

| Year    | Revenue   | Expenditure |
|---------|-----------|-------------|
| 1956–57 | $19,124,815 | $16,216,542 |
| 1957–58 | $20,684,883 | $19,270,986 |
| 1958–59 | $23,761,801 | $20,723,432 |
| 1959–60 | $23,157,771 | $22,253,481 |
| 1960–61 | $26,035,381 | $22,684,681 |

In 1960–61 $12,154,673 was derived from Customs and Excise and $9,861,313 from direct Taxation.

The main heads of expenditure for the same year were as follows:

- Social Services (education, health and old age pensions) $7,287,496
- Public Works (including roads and water) $3,248,758
- Subventions and Miscellaneous Services $1,525,032
- Police and Prisons $1,584,115
- Agriculture $871,892
- Subsidies and Controls $275,825

Expenditure on Capital Account amounting to $8,828,193 was met from loan funds, surplus balances and Colonial Development and Welfare grants.

The Public Debt at the 1st April 1961 was $27,243,828. Towards this an amount of $2,395,538 was provided by sinking funds.

At 1st April 1961 the amount of free surplus balances was $7,105,835.

Currency

The currency in circulation is a West Indian currency issued by the Board of the Commissioners of Currency, British Caribbean Territories (Eastern group) consisting of Barbados, British Guiana, the Leeward Islands, Trinidad and Tobago and the Windward Islands. Currency notes are of denominations $1, $2, $5, $10, $20 and $100. British coin is legal tender but the chief medium of circulation is the new British Caribbean coin in denominations of 50 cents, 25 cents, 10 cents, 5 cents, 2 cents, 1 cent and a ½ cent. The West Indian $ is fixed at 4s. 2d., that is $4·80 to £1 sterling.

Development Plans

The Legislature has approved the Development Plan 1960–65 envisaging a total expenditure of $53·5 million as follows:

| Category                          | ($ million) |
|-----------------------------------|-------------|
| Education                         | 3·7         |
| Social Services                   | 6·7         |
| Communications, Works and Housing | 27·5        |
| Agriculture, Lands and Fisheries  | 5·8         |
| Trade, Industry and Labour        | 9·0         |
| Research                          | 0·8         |
| Total                             | 53·5        |

The sources of financing proposed are:

| Source               | ($ million) |
|----------------------|-------------|
| General Revenue      | 2·7         |
| Grants               | 1·4         |
| Sugar Funds          | 6·4         |
| Surplus Balances     | 9·7         |
| Housing Revenues     | 3·1         |
| Loan Funds           | 30·2        |
| Total                | 53·5        |

The aim of the Plan is promotion of the Island's economic development leading to greater national income and more employment. Great emphasis is placed on industrial development, expansion of the tourist industry and agricultural diversification. Provision of substantial incentives to investment by way of fiscal reliefs, intensification of promotion efforts by the Development Board and Tourist Board, development of technical education, carrying out of research investigations and the improvement of the basic communication facilities (harbour, airport, roads), continuation of the housing programme, construction of a new general, and two district hospitals and provision of increased office accommodation are the main items in the Plan.

Education

Education policy aims at the integration of the primary and secondary systems of education and the eventual introduction of compulsory education for children between the ages of 5 and 14 years.
Education at the primary stage is provided in primary schools, in the preparatory departments of Government-aided secondary grammar schools and in independent schools. Secondary education is provided in the senior departments of the primary schools, in secondary modern schools, Government-aided secondary grammar schools and some independent schools. No fees are charged in the primary and secondary modern schools. Tuition fees in the Government-aided secondary grammar schools range from $15 to $72 per annum.

There are 116 primary schools and 5 secondary modern schools, which are entirely maintained by Government funds. At the close of the school year 1960–61 the number of registered pupils was 41,763 (21,161 boys, 20,602 girls). There are 10 government-aided secondary grammar schools (3 first grade and 7 second grade) with an attendance of 4,135 pupils (2,530 boys, 1,605 girls). Eldiston Training College now provides a one-year emergency residential training course for approximately 96 students including 30 from the Windward and Leeward Islands. Under the Barbados Government Training Programme, the Commonwealth Scholarship and Fellowship Plan, the Commonwealth Bursary Scheme, scholarships and bursaries are awarded annually to teachers in government-aided and government-maintained schools and other qualified applicants for study in commonwealth countries and at the University College of the West Indies. Codrington College, affiliated to the University of Durham, is a Theological College. There were 35 students in residence during 1960–61.

During the academic year there were 38 Government scholars and exhibitioners attending universities overseas: 11 in the United Kingdom, 2 in Canada and 25 at the University College of the West Indies. In addition 18 students were advanced loans from the Higher Education Loan Fund: 3 were attending universities in the United Kingdom, 11 at the University College of the West Indies and 4 at universities in the United States, Canada, France and India.

Evening classes in Academic, Commercial, Handicraft and Technical subjects and Home Economics are conducted at various centres throughout the island including the Housecraft Centre and the Technical Institute, under the Adult Education Programme. Technical education is now provided at the Technical Institute established in 1955. It offers courses at three levels viz.: for craftsmen, for technicians and for those desirous of proceeding to advanced technological studies. The Apprenticeship Board has taken over the functions of the Board of Industrial Training: 48 bursaries are awarded annually for training in various trades under apprenticeship schemes with master workmen.

Expenditure on education services in 1960–61 was $2,774,962 compared with $1,653,132 in 1950–51 and $491,962 in 1940–41.

Libraries and Museums

A free Public Library (72,423 books) is maintained by Government. The Barbados Museum and Historical Society possesses collections of books, pictures, models, specimens of birds and fishes, and a collection of relics of the original Arawak inhabitants of the island.

Health

The Barbados General Hospital has accommodation for 46 paying patients and 407 non-paying patients. In-patient attendances numbered 10,651, out-patient attendances 149,450 in 1960–61. The Government maintains a mental hospital with accommodation for 321 males and 476 females and a leper hospital at which there are 12 patients. For the training of midwives the Government Maternity Hospital has accommodation for 20 expectant mothers. The new general hospital is still under construction. Each of the 11 parishes has an infirmary for the care of the destitute sick and for the housing of the aged and poor. These infirmaries provide medical care and in some parishes function as district hospitals. A district hospital at Oistins, Christ Church, was opened in December 1960. It provides 20 beds; 10 for maternity and 10 for acute medical cases.

Preventive medicine is based on the Health Centre System. Three Centres are operating, in St. Michael, St. Peter and St. Philip. Two of these Centres operate out-station Clinics in various parts of the island.

Estimated expenditure on Health Services amounted to $2,781,877 in 1960–61 compared with $206,870 in 1935–36.

Communications

An International Airport is situated at Seawell, 12 miles from Bridgetown. Air France, British Overseas Airways Corporation, British West Indian Airways, Linea Aeropostal Venezolana, Pan American World Airways and Trans-Canada Air Lines operate frequent scheduled services connecting Barbados with the major world air routes.

There are 688 miles of road open to traffic most of which has a bituminous surface.

Bridgetown is the only port of entry, although some loading of sugar takes place at Speightstown and oil is pumped ashore at Spring Gardens and an Esso installation on the West Coast.

The main shipping companies visiting Barbados are Harrison Line, Elder and Fyffes Line, Royal Netherlands Steampship Company, Compagnie Générale Transatlantique, Saguenay Shipping Ltd., Booth Line, Lampart and Holt Line, Alcea Steampship Company, M.A.N.Z. Line, Moore McCormack Line, Nourse Line, Caribbean-Hamburg Line (formerly Three Bays Line) and Federal Shipping Service. Occasionally ships of the Linea "C" and Grimaldi Lines visit port.

Broadcasting

A wired system, which is now island-wide, is operated by a local company—Barbados Rediffusion Service Limited. It has 20,880 subscribers.

Principal Occupations

Most of the population is engaged in the cultivation of the sugar crop and auxiliary occupations connected with the sugar industry. Approximate figures are:—23,000 persons engaged in agriculture, 16,000 in domestic service, 12,000 in the retail trade and 7,000 in construction work. About 1,600 persons are engaged in the fishing industry.

At the end of 1960, there were eight Trade Unions of which five were employers' associations with membership totalling about 329 business concerns and three workers' organizations with about 13,000 members.

Main Crops and Products

Sugar cane is the principal export crop grown on all plantations and on nearly all small holdings. In 1961, sugar production was the equivalent of 159,514 long tons.
Yams, sweet potatoes, eddoes, cassava, maize and pigeon peas comprise the main food crops which are grown in accordance with regulations issued annually. Green vegetables and other crops are cultivated on a minor scale and there is a limited production of tree crops and citrus fruit.

The estimated numbers of livestock are as follows:

- Cattle, 11,000; Pigs, 48,734; Sheep, 40,132;
- Goats, 9,660; and Poultry, 80,000.

A Central Livestock Station has been established to investigate the possibility of developing an economic system of animal husbandry, with special attention to dairying.

A Fisheries Section of the Department of Agriculture was established in 1944 for the investigation of more efficient methods of marine fishing and to encourage their use. Large scale mechanization of the fishing fleet has been practically accomplished with the assistance of loans from Government and plans for the establishment of cold storage facilities are nearing completion. The estimated catch of fish during 1960 was 16,000,000 lb. valued at approximately $4,018,500.

Production of natural gas during the year ended 31st March 1960 was 82·6 million cubic feet. During 1960 6,579·70 tons of temper, building and manurial limestone were exported.

Manufactures include the production of sugar for local consumption, rum, bread and a variety of biscuits, edible oil, aerated waters, cigarettes, soap, ice and furniture.

### Trade

| Year | Total Imports | Domestic Exports | Re-exports |
|------|---------------|------------------|------------|
| 1956 | 61,314,836    | 32,874,579       | 3,329,433  |
| 1957 | 68,297,984    | 45,010,975       | 3,987,620  |
| 1958 | 73,373,892    | 35,497,827       | 4,581,270  |
| 1959 | 74,862,277    | 39,821,329       | 6,913,324  |
| 1960 | 83,299,369    | 35,016,152       | 5,895,544  |

(All figures exclude Bullion and Specie.)

In 1938 40·7% of the total imports came from the United Kingdom, 13% from Canada and 17·6% from other Commonwealth countries. In 1960 the corresponding figures were 39·3%, 10·3% and 17·2%.

In 1938 42·2% of exports went to the United Kingdom, 37·5% to Canada and 1·2% to other Commonwealth countries. In 1960 the corresponding figures were 61·5%, 11·4% and 19·4%.

### Principal Exports by Quantity and Value

| Item     | 1938 | 1959 | 1960 |
|----------|------|------|------|
| Sugar    | 000 tons | 81   | 157  | 130  |
|          | $     | 3,279| 31,043| 26,833|
| Molasses | 000 gallons | 8,569| 9,922| 7,892|
|          | $     | 2,429| 4,228| 3,161|
| Rum      | 000 gallons | 100  | 757  | 790  |
|          | $     | 45   | 2,150| 2,412|
| Soap     | 000 lb. | —    | 1,038| 1,062|
|          | $     | —    | 211  | 222  |
| Margarine| 000 lb. | —    | 1,398| 1,594|
|          | $     | —    | 597  | 700  |
| Edible Oil| 000 gallons | —    | 105  | 101  |
|          | $     | —    | 233  | 231  |

The chief imports are animal foods, rice, flour, salted pork, milk, lumber, cotton and artificial silk piece-goods, hardware, machinery, motor vehicles, boots and shoes and iron and steel manufactures.

### Marketing and Co-operative Organizations

In 1960-61 there were 41 societies registered under the Co-operative Societies Act. Total membership was 1,949.

### Governors and Commanders-in-Chief of Barbados from its Settlement in 1627

1628 Charles Wolferston.
1629 John Powell.
1629 Robert Wheatley.
1629 Sir William Tufton.
1630 Henry Hawley.
1640 Sir Henry Hunks.
1641 Philip Bell.
1650 Francis, Lord Willoughby.
1651 Sir George Ayscue.
1652 Daniel Searle.
1660 Thomas Modiford.
1660 Humphrey Walrond (Deputy Governor).
1663 Francis, Lord Willoughby.
1666 Henry Willoughby
William Willoughby
Henry Hawley
Samuel Barwick
Joint-Governors.
1667 William, Lord Willoughby.
1674 Sir Jonathan Atkins.
1680 Sir Richard Dutton.
1690 James Kendall.
1694 Francis Russell.
1698 Ralph Grey.
1703 Sir Bevill Granville.
1707 Metford Crowe.
1711 Robert Lowther.
1722 Henry Worsley.
1733 Viscount Howe.
1739 Hon. Robert Bing.
1742 Sir Thomas Robinson.
1747 Hon. Henry Grenville.
1753 Charles Pinfold.
1768 William Spry.
1772 Hon. Edward Hay.
1780 James Cunninghame.
1784 David Parry.
1794 George Poynett Rickets.
1801 Lord Seaforth.
1806 John Spooner (Acting Governor).
1810 Sir George Beckwith, K.B.
1815 Sir James Leith, G.C.B.
1817 Viscount Combermere, G.C.B.
1821 Sir Henry Warde, K.C.B.
1829 Sir James Lyon, K.C.B.
1833 Sir Lionel Smith, K.C.B.
1836 Sir E. J. M. M'Gregor, Bt., K.C.B.
1841 C. H. Darling.
1841 Sir Charles Edward Grey.
1846 William Reid, C.B.
1848 Sir W. M. G. Colebrooke.
1856 Sir Francis Hincks.
1862 Sir James Walker, K.C.M.G., C.B.
1868 Sir Rawson W. Rawson, K.C.M.G., C.B.
1875 Sir John Pope Hennessy, K.C.M.G.
1876 Sir Geo. C. Strahan, K.C.M.G.
1880 Sir William Robinson, K.C.M.G.
1885 Sir Charles C. Lees, K.C.M.G.
1889 Sir Walter J. Sendall, G.C.M.G.
1891 Sir J. S. Hay, K.C.M.G.
1900 Sir F. M. Hodgson, K.C.M.G.
