THE TRANSVAAL.

Situation and General Description.

The Transvaal Territory lies between the 22nd and 28th parallel of south latitude, and the 25° and 30½° east longitude. It may be said generally to be bounded by the Orange River, the Lebombo Mountains, the Limpopo River, and the Kalahari Desert; but the boundaries remain in some directions still undefined. The area is about 114,000 square miles.

The southern portion of the territory is traversed from west to east by a high plateau, which forms the watershed between the rivers running south and those running north, of which the chief are respectively the Vaal and the Limpopo. Besides this elevated plateau, called the Hooge Veldt, there are three mountain ranges which cross the country from west to east, of which the most northerly and important is called the Zoutpansberg, in the district of the same name. Detached ranges, which are continuations of the Drakensberg Mountains, extend from the Natal boundary to the Oliphant's River, north of Lydenburg, in the eastern districts. These rise in places to an elevation of 7,000 feet.

The country is well watered, and rich in springs, and the surface soil is covered with a sward of a particularly good quality, affording pasturage for horses, sheep, and cattle. In the southern districts the habit has existed of burning off the grass in the dry winter season, on the ground that it improved the pasturage. This practice has produced a great scarcity of shrubs and trees. In the middle and north parts of the country vegetation is plentiful and luxuriant, and there still exist some extensive forests, the principal of which are the Pangola Bush, in Utrecht, and the Houtbosch in Zoutpansberg, in which latter forest ebony and mahogany trees have been found, of considerable height and dimensions.

All the districts of the Colony are well adapted for cattle breeding and the growth of cereals. In the south, also, that is in Potchefstroom, South Pretoria, Heidelberg, New Scotland, Middelberg, Wakkerstroom, and Utrecht, horses may be bred, but in the middle and north districts, such as North Pretoria, Lydenburg, Zoutpansberg, and Waterberg, the conditions are unfavourable for breeding horses, as also for breeding small stock. These latter districts are suitable to the production of sugar-cane, coffee, and cotton. The Transvaal is rich in minerals, such as gold, copper, lead, cobalt, iron, and coal. Auriferous quartz was discovered by a German traveller, in 1868, in a range of hills north of the Oliphant's River, afterwards called Murchison's Ranges. In 1873, alluvial gold was found in the district of Lydenburg, where there is now a digging population of some hundreds. Gold has also been found at Buffelspoort Farm, in the district of Waterberg, on the Crocodile and Komati Rivers, Schoenspruit in the district of Marico, on the townlands of Pretoria, and at Marabastad, where the gold mine is worked by an English company.

There are no statistics to show the extent of the trade of the country.

History.

The first European settlers in the Transvaal Territory were emigrant Cape farmers. The original destination of these emigrants was Natal, but upon the annexation of Natal to the English Crown, most of them left the new district, and turning back over the Drakensberg went, some to the Orange River Territory, and others to the country beyond the Vaal. In 1848 British sovereignty was extended over the Orange River Territory, but no attempt was made by the British Government to exercise authority over its unwilling subjects beyond the Vaal, and in January, 1852, a treaty was made with them by which they were recognised as independent, and a promise made that they would not be interfered with in the management of their own affairs. This treaty is known as the Sand River Convention. The emigrants at the time formed three independent communities, which did not unite until 1858, when they adopted for themselves the name of the South African Republic. After 15 years of somewhat chequered history, the people of the Transvaal elected as President the Rev. Thomas Burgers, a talented and enlightened Lutheran clergyman from the Cape Colony, and high hopes were entertained by many for the future of the Republic under his guidance. These hopes were not fulfilled. Misfortunes followed one another in rapid succession, and only ended with the collapse of the Government, and the extinction of the Republic.

The President early conceived the project of a railway to be made from Delagoa Bay into the Republic, to carry its produce profitably to the sea; and to promote this project he visited Europe in 1875, concluded a treaty with Portugal and essayed to launch a loan of 300,000l. in Amsterdam, of which, however, only about 74,000l. were subscribed. This money he spent in buying plant for the proposed railway, part of which is now lying at Delagon Bay. In the meantime the provisional Government of the Republic had drifted into a dispute with the formidable Zulu King, Cetywayo, touching the boundary of Utrecht Province; and on his return the President himself engaged, first in a dispute with, and then in actual military operations against Sakukuni, a small Bechuana chief living on the north-east of the Republic, whose country was claimed under an ambiguous and not very intelligible treaty in the Dutch language, to which some Boers had obtained the assent of Sakukuni's father in the year 1857. The operations against
NOTE AS TO BOUNDARIES.

The boundaries of the Transvaal have in certain parts not been accurately defined, not made the subject of satisfactory agreement with the Native Tribes; and no two geographers have traced them alike. It would be confusing to show on the accompanying map the boundary line of each geographer; and it will suffice to indicate what were the limits assigned to the Republic by the German Geographer Petermann in his Map of 1870 (light red), and what are the additions claimed for the Transvaal in the Maps of 1877-8 by Mr. Jeppe, the local geographer (which are shown in medium red). It may be noted that the country between the Olifant's River and the Steelpont River was excluded from the limits of the Transvaal by a map of Petermann's published in 1873.

The territory coloured dark-red is that awarded to the Zulus by H.M. High Commissioner in the recent arbitration between the Transvaal and the Zulu nation.
Sakukuni, which were upon a large scale looking to the resources of the Republic, and were directed in person by the President, ended in disaster. The Republican field army melted away, a guerrilla war, however, being continued by a small mercenary force until a peace was concluded early in 1877. In the meantime the defeat of the Boers by an insignificant tribe of an unwarlike branch of the native race, and their inability to repair the disaster, were producing the most alarming excitement in the native mind, and, the peace of South Africa being in evident peril, Her Majesty's Government at once despatched Sir Theophilus Shepstone, who happened to be in London at the time, to South Africa, as a Special Commissioner from Her Majesty, to watch events, and take such action as might be necessary to secure the general peace. When Sir Theophilus Shepstone arrived in the Transvaal, he found that the peace with Sakukuni was but a hollow one, as the chief declared that he had never assented to, and knew nothing of, its principal article; while at the same time the attitude of the Zulu King on the east was such that his irruption into the Republic with an overwhelming force might at any moment be expected. The condition of the Government was past hope. The finances, which had never flourished, had wholly gone to ruin under the strain of war expenditure and a foreign loan. The public servants were unpaid. The treasury was empty. The public debt was £295,074L. The people would no longer pay taxes, and the banks, to which the Republic was heavily in debt, refused further advances. The coercive authority of the Government over its own subjects had ceased, and its defensive power against the enemies whom it had provoked was nil. In these circumstances—the Republican Government having in effect ceased to exist, and being incapable of revival—Sir Theophilus Shepstone saw no other course but to proclaim the Queen's sovereignty, and set up a Government. This he did on the 12th of April by a proclamation which has been approved by Her Majesty.

The Government continues to be administered by Sir Theophilus Shepstone, under powers contained in the commission given him when sent to the Transvaal as Special Commissioner in 1876.

The annexation of the Transvaal was effected without the aid of physical force. Sir T. Shepstone at the time had with him but a few mounted policemen; and Her Majesty's troops did not arrive in the province for some time after the English Government had been set up, with the apparent acquiescence of the public in general. But subsequently a revulsion of feeling took place, and two deputations have been sent to England since annexation, to represent those who were opposed to annexation and desired a withdrawal of the British Government. But in each case the answer of Her Majesty's Government was a decided negative. The only legislation which has taken place since annexation has consisted in two Orders in Council constituting a new High Court of Justice, presided over by two judges.

The energies of the Government have been largely occupied in dealing with the renewed hostility of Sakukuni, and guarding against threatened danger on the Zulu border, where the new Government succeeded to the long-pending boundary quarrel between Cetywayo and the late Republic.

Finance.

The principal sources of revenue are quit-rents, transfer duties, poll-tax, an import duty on all goods brought into the country, stamps, fees, and Kaffir taxes, the yield of which has hitherto been but trifling.

The revenue and expenditure of the late Government for the last three years of its existence were as follows:

| Year | Revenue (£) | Expenditure (£) |
|------|------------|----------------|
| 1874-5 | 58,553     | 61,784         |
| 1875-6 | 64,582     | 69,394         |
| 1876-7 | 62,762     | 64,504         |

The receipts of the local treasury from the 12th of April to the 31st of December, 1877, were £46,293L.

The ordinary expenditure during the same period was £38,094L.

The receipts and ordinary expenditure for 1878 were estimated at £89,750L and £87,950L.

The Transvaal has two funded debts, one of £93,833L, raised at Amsterdam, and one of £63,900L, raised at the Cape. It is also in debt to the local banks and others. The future of its finance depends upon the amount of war expenditure in which it may be unavoidably involved.

There are supposed to be about 36,000 whites in the province, and the native population has been variously estimated at from 350,000 to 1,000,000.

Civil Establishment.

Administrator of the Government, Sir Theophilus Shepstone, K.C.M.G., 2,500L.

Private Secretary, J. F. James, Capt. 1-13th L.I., 300L.

Clerk, Governor's Office, A. H. D. Cochrane, 200L.

Colonial Secretary Mclnmoth Osborn, 800L.

Clerk to Colonial Secretary, G. Y. Lagden, 250L.

1st Clerk, Colonial Office, H. Stiemens, 300L.

2nd ditto, C. V. Boescheuton, 250L.

3rd ditto, F. Stiemens, 150L.

Secretary for Native Affairs, H. C. Shepstone, 800L.

Clerk, C. H. R. Norman, 250L.

Treasurer, N. J. R. Swart, 700L.

1st Clerk and Accountant, S. J. Mostest (acting), 250L.

2nd ditto, A. P. Crole, 150L.

Surveyor-General, S. Melvill, 600L.

1st Clerk, F. H. Rissick, 200L.

2nd ditto, C. F. Palmer, 150L.

Clerk of Works, G. Loveday, 300L.

Auditor, D. M. Kisch (acting), 500L.

1st Clerk, J. Vogel, 225L.

2nd ditto, J. Matthysen, 120L.

Registrar of Deeds, J. J. Meintjes, 500L.

1st Clerk, J. C. Minnaar, 225L.

2nd ditto, R. K. Loveday, 175L.

3rd ditto, A. C. H. Lorentz, 150L.

Orphan Master, H. C. Bergsma, 500L.

Clerk, J. G. C. van Leenhoff, 300L.

Postmaster-General, J. A. de Vogel, 500L.

Postmaster, Pretoria, A. von Levitzow, 250L.

1st Clerk, General Post Office, R. O. G. Lys, 150L.

2nd ditto, H. L. H. Smithers, 120L.

Postmaster, Potchefstroom, E. H. de Waal, 200L.

Clerk, A. J. Hinds, 75L.

Note.—There are Postmasters at Rustenburg, Klipkorsdorp, Zeemst, Bloemhof, Heidelberg, Middelburg, Upsal, Christiana, Erstellung, Wakkerstroom, Utrecht, Lydenburg, Waterberg, Lichtenburg and Pilgrim's Rest.

Judicial Establishment.

Judge of the High Court, J. G. Kotze, 1,200L.

Puisne Judge,

Clerk, C. P. M. Weatherley, 150L.

Master and Registrar, H. Rider-Haggard, 400L.

High Sheriff, C. J. Inta, 400L.

Interpreter and Translator, F. Jeppe, 300L.
Attorney General, C. G. Maasdorp, 600l.
Clerk, 150l.
Landdrost, Pretoria, J. C. Krogh (acting), 500l.
1st Clerk, C. A. E. Becker (acting), 250l.
2nd ditto, 125l.
Landdrost, Potchefstroom, A. M. Goetz, 500l.
1st Clerk, T. J. Krogh, 250l.
2nd ditto, F. Faunay, 125l.
Landdrost, Utrecht, G. M. Rudolph, 500l.
Clerk, C. L. Scheffer, 175l.
Ditto, Zulu Interpreter, R. Roberts, 120l.
Landdrost, Lydenburg, G. A. Roth, 400l.
Clerk, C. van Brandis, 175l.
Landdrost, Rustenburg, P. J. Van Staden, 400l.
Clerk, W. Ayres, 250l.
Landdrost, Witteberg, C. Veckermann, 400l.
Clerk, D. Nabal, 175l.
Landdrost, Wolkerstroom, T. S. Hutchinson, 400l.
Clerk, H. W. van Rossem, 175l.
Landdrost, Middelburg, J. Scoble (acting), 400l.
Clerk, J. W. Rehboek, 175l.
Landdrost, Marico, P. A. van Yperen, 400l.
Clerk, J. A. Butten, 175l.
Landdrost, Bloemhof, W. Best, 400l.
Clerk, M. C. Geenis, 175l.
Landdrost, Waterberg, C. Moll (acting), 400l.
Clerk, C. Jeppie, 175l.
Landdrost, Zoutpansberg, C. F. Ziervogel, 400l.
Clerk, R. G. Inpey, 175l.
Commissioner, Lydenburg, M. Clarke, Capt. R.A., 600l.
Clerk, F. A. Pearson, 150l.
Commissioner, Zoutpansberg, Sir M. Barlow, Bart. (acting), 25s. per day.
Clerk, P. G. Froude, 150l.
Commissioner, Lichtenburg, C. B. Scholtz, 300l.
Native Commissioner, Zoutpansberg, Oscar Dahl, 300l.
Native Commissioner, Waterberg, W. V. King, 240l.
Gold Commissioner, Pilgrim's Rest, James Gunn (acting), 450l.
Lrk, C. Ivey, 150l.

Educational Department.
Superintendent of Education, Lyle J. Vacy, M.D., 600l.
Head Master, Pretoria, Kuyper van Nikkelen, 200l.
Assistant Teacher, Pretoria, Bates, W., 125l.
Head Master, Potchefstroom, Louis, W., 200l.
Assistant Teacher, Potchefstroom, Ludorf, J., 125l.
Head Master, Rustenburg, van Manen, J., 275l.
Ditto, Middelburg, van der Linden, H., 200l.
Assistant Teacher, Middelburg, Peters, Mrs., 125l.
Head Master, Martinus Wisselstroom, Ackerman, D. P., 200l.
Head Master, Lichtenburg, Bantjes, J. G., 200l.
Assistant Teacher, Lichtenburg, Matheson, Miss, 125l.
Head Master, Utrecht, Dirks, C. H., 125l.
Ditto, Luneburg, Filter, H., 100l.
Ditto, Ventersdorp, Eckhout, C. W., 100l.
Ditto, Zoutpansberg, Bivard, Louis, 100l.
Itinerant Teacher, Kamel Fontein, Velthuysen, A. G., 25l.
Itinerant Teacher, Vaalkopplaats, Braun, E. R., 25l.

