SWAZILAND.

Situation and Area.

Swaziland is bounded on the North, West, and South by the Transvaal, and on the East by Portuguese territory and Tongaland, now part of Natal.

Its area is approximately 6,630 square miles.

Description and Climate.

The territory is divided geographically into three longitudinal regions.

The mountainous region on the West approximates an altitude of over 4,000 feet.

What is known as the Middle Veld is some 2,000 feet lower, while the Low Veld, bounded on the East by the Lebombo Mountains, attains an average altitude of not more than 1,000 feet.

The first two regions are well watered and healthy, but the Low Veld cannot be described as either.

Mbabane, the headquarters of the Administration, is situated on the hills at an altitude of 4,300 feet, and Bremersdorp, the old capital, is on the Middle Veld. There are no other European villages.

History.

Swaziland, known to the natives as "Kwangwane," has been in the occupation of the Swazi tribes for a considerable period, and the present Ama-Swazi are no doubt the descendants of the early Bantu invaders, who occupied the country contemporaneously with the occupation of adjacent territory by allied tribes. The history of the consolidation into a nation of a congeries of tribes dates from early in the eighteenth century, when the adoption of a military organisation led to the dominance of one tribe over the others.

Certain "Medicine" and rain cattle were captured from Sikukuni by the Swazis, who lent assistance in the operations against that chief in the time of the first British occupation of the Transvaal, and the possession of this rain medicine has invested the paramount chief of Swaziland, in the minds of the natives of South Africa, with high authority as a rain maker.

The Swazis, while strong enough to repel a Zulu invasion, were nevertheless subject to the aggression of these neighbours, who, with the Boers, claimed authority over the country. In the Conventions of Pretoria (1881), and London (1884) Her Majesty's Government, however, expressly stipulated for the independence of Swaziland.

During the eighties the King "Mbandini" granted concessions for certain sums and periods. Every conceivable right was granted away, not only for land, minerals, grazing, and timber, but also for all imaginable purposes, including exemption from taxes, railways, telegraphs, mining...
patents, collection of the King's revenue, trading, etc., etc. All unallotted lands and minerals also formed the subject of concessions.

In 1888 a charter of self-government was granted to the whites in the country. Later, in 1890, under a Convention between Her Majesty's Government and the South African Republic, a provisional Government was, with the consent of the Swazis, set up, consisting of a Government Committee composed of representatives of those two Powers, and a representative of the Swazis, a Government Secretary, and of a Chief Court. This Court adjudicated on the initial validity of all concessions granted by the King, and, with few exceptions, confirmed the grants in respect of such initial validity.

In accordance with pledges given to the Government of the South African Republic the provisional Administration came to an end three years later, when the British Government signed a fresh Convention, which permitted the South African Republic to acquire from the Regent and her Council an Organic Proclamation conferring on the South African Republic rights of jurisdiction, legislation and administration without incorporation in the South African Republic. The Swazis never signed the Organic Proclamation which had been drafted for them, and accordingly its provisions, with some of those in the 1893 Convention, were embodied in the final Convention of 1894, under which the South African Republic exercised powers of protection, legislation, jurisdiction and administration in Swaziland, subject to the limitations of the Convention.

On the conquest of the Transvaal, all the rights and powers of the late South African Republic passed to His Majesty, but since the other party to the Convention of 1894 had disappeared without the limitations therein, an Order in Council under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act was issued in June, 1903, providing that the Governor of the Transvaal should administer Swaziland, and conferring on him the right to legislate by Proclamation.

On the cessation of hostilities a British Special Commissioner, with a small force of South African Constabulary, was sent into the country, and a provisional Administration was established.

In accordance with the powers granted to him, the Governor issued a Proclamation in 1904 providing for administration and for dealing with the concessions question. The Laws of the Transvaal in force at that date of the Proclamation were applied to Swaziland, mutatis mutandis. Courts were established with the right of appeal to the Supreme Court of the Transvaal, and an appeal was permitted from the decisions of the chiefs in civil matters to the Court of the Resident Magistrate. The chiefs were otherwise confirmed in their civil jurisdiction over natives, subject to the exclusion of usages repugnant to civilisation.

The Commission constituted under the Proclamation of 1904 to deal with the concessions examined the concessions granting exclusive rights, except exclusive rights to land and minerals, with a view to their expropriation at their value prior to the commencement of hostilities. The Commission reported in 1906, and the concessions, the subject of its report, were, with a few exceptions, expropriated. The Commission has now dealt with the question of boundaries of land, mineral and grazing concessions. The general survey of these concessions, necessary to determine the conflicting rights, is almost complete. The Proclamation of 1904 further provided for the settlement of the rights of the natives, which in a modified form, is now completed.

By an Order in Council, dated 1st December, 1906, His Majesty's Government transferred the control of Swaziland from the Governor of the Transvaal to the High Commissioner for South Africa. Under the Order in Council the High Commissioner issued a Proclamation in March, 1907, providing for the appointment of a Resident Commissioner, a Government Secretary, Assistant Commissioners and the establishment of a Police Force. The Laws of the Transvaal were re-enacted, mutatis mutandis, and, except where modified by Statute, the Roman-Dutch Common Law was put in force by the Proclamation. Besides the Courts of the Resident Commissioner and Assistant Commissioners, a Special court was established to deal with serious civil and criminal cases in which Europeans are concerned.

The paramount chief and other chiefs were confirmed in their Civil Jurisdiction over natives subject to appeal to the Resident Commissioner's Court. Provision was made for the Swaziland Deeds Office and Surveyor-General's Office to remain at Pretoria under control of the officers responsible prior to the date of the Proclamation.

Population.

The population of Swaziland is, according to the census of 1904, 84,601 natives and 890 whites.

The Swazi are a kindred race to the Zulu. They have easily accessible markets for their labour, both locally and in the Transvaal, but their efforts in this direction are spasmodic.

The paramount chief is "Sobhuza," a boy of about eleven years of age. His grandmother, "Nabotsibeni," widow of "Mbandini," acts as Regent, and has the assistance of a council of chiefs. A few of the principal chiefs are:

- Nogcogco Dhlamini, brother of Mbandini.
- Jokovu Dhlamini.
- Malunge Dhlamini, son of Mbandini.
- Ndabazwe Dhlamini.
- Silelo Nsambane.
- Makambane Fakude.
- Sihlelo Madhluli.
- Nthengili Simelana.
- Tikuba Dhlamini.

The English Church Mission, The South Africa General Mission, and the Scandinavian Alliance Mission have representatives in the country.

The Administration has a native school at Zombodzi, the kraal of the Regent, at which the young paramount chief attends, and has schools for European children at Bremersdorp and Ferreira's Hluti, and Parady's in the Hlatikulu District.

Industries.

The principal industry is tin mining, which is carried on extensively in the neighbourhood of Mbabane. During the year ended March 31st, 1909, tin valued at approximately £36,524 was shipped from Swaziland.

A certain amount of gold mining has been done, resulting in an output, during the year of 19,580. All mining is carried on under concession. Coal of a good quality has been found in the Low Veld over a large area.

Experiments are being conducted in cotton growing, with encouraging results.
Includes an Amount of 45,000£ Loan.

Includes 49,874£ for expropriation of Monopolies and Concessions and Partition Commissions.

The information in this notice is kindly supplied by the British South Africa Company.
The western portion of Swaziland serves as a winter grazing ground for sheep from the Transvaal. Approximately 130,000 sheep entered and left the country between the months of May and September, 1909.

Stores exist where necessary to serve the needs of the population.

There is a branch of the National Bank of South Africa, Limited, at Mbabane, as also a Post Office Savings Bank. The currency is exclusively British.

The agricultural products are:—Millet, maize, pumpkins, ground-nuts, etc.

Revenue and Expenditure.

The revenue and expenditure for the year ending March 31st, 1909, are as follows:—

| Revenue | 91,484£ |
|---------|---------|
| Expenditure | 91,127£ |

The public debt on April 1st, 1909, was 80,000£.

Imports and Exports.

Imports for the year ending March 31st, 1909, amounted in value to 47,310£., and exports for the same period to 56,206£.

The imports consisted of maize, flour, groceries, apparel, cotton and woollen manufactures, hardware, spirits, tobacco, sugar, etc., while the exports were represented by cassiterite tin and raw gold.

Swaziland Administration.

Establishment.

Resident Commissioner, R. T. Coryndon, 1,200£., and 380£. horse and travelling allowances.

Government Secretary and Accountant, de S. M. G. Honey, 800£.

Chief Clerk, B. H. Warner, B.A., 500£.

Assistant Accountant, L. G. Luscombe, 400£.

Registrar and Sheriff, T. A. F. Steward, 320£.

Clerk, J. F. Wolsley-Bourne, 270£.

Assistant Commissioner, Hlatikulu District, B. Nicholson, D.S.O., 590£., and 150£. horse and travelling allowances, also draws 100£. personal allowance.

Clerk, A. H. Pitcher, 365£.

Assistant Commissioner, Hoho District, C. R. I. Ross Garner, 590£., and 150£. horse and travelling allowances.

Assistant Commissioner, Mbabane District, A. G. Marwick, 590£., and 150£. horse and travelling allowances.

Clerk, H. B. A. McCarter, 270£.

Assistant Commissioner, Ulombo District, M. W. Whitridge, 590£., and 150£. horse and travelling allowances, also draws 100£. climatic allowance.

Police.

Assistant Commissioner in charge, Capt. C. H. Gilson, D.S.O., 590£., and 225£. horse and travelling allowances.

Sub-Inspectors, D. H. Harvey, 385£.; J. T. G. Maber, 320£.; T. Christie, 310£. and 5£. climatic allowance; G. D. Roberts, 300£. Each sub-inspector draws 75£. horse and travelling allowances.

Medical Officer, Capt. R. Clark Perkins, D.S.O., 600£., and 175£. horse and travelling allowances.

Government Veterinary Surgeon, W. A. Elder, 540£., and 150£. horse and travelling allowances.

* Includes an Amount of 45,000£. Loan.

† Includes 49,874£., for expropriation of Monopolies and Concessions and Partition Commissions.

