THE HIGH COMMISSION TERRITORIES

(BASUTOLAND, THE BECHUANALAND PROTECTORATE AND SWAZILAND)

The Colony of Basutoland and the Protectorates of Bechuanaland and Swaziland in southern Africa are administered on behalf of Her Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom by a High Commissioner. The High Commissioner also holds the office of High Commissioner for the United Kingdom in the Union of South Africa. He is the sole legislative authority for Basutoland, the Bechuanaland Protectorate and Swaziland and is responsible to the Secretary of State for Commonwealth Relations in the same way as a Colonial Governor is responsible to the Secretary of State for the Colonies.

Each Territory is administered by a Resident Commissioner, responsible to the High Commissioner, and is divided into administrative districts in charge of District Commissioners.

Information about these Territories will be found in The Commonwealth Relations Office List. This brief note, and the following Civil Establishment list showing heads and deputy heads of departments and analogous appointments, have been included in The Colonial Office List 1958 because the staffs of these Territories are interchangeable with the staffs of the territories administered under the direction of the Secretary of State for the Colonies. Biographical notes are included in the Record of Services section.

CIVIL ESTABLISHMENT

HIGH COMMISSIONER: Sir Percivale Liesching, G.C.M.G., K.C.B., K.C.V.O. (High Commissioner for the United Kingdom in the Union of South Africa).

Private Secretary—P. Bridges (District Officer).

HIGH COMMISSIONER'S OFFICE

Deputy High Commissioner—T. V. Scrivenor, C.M.G.

Administrative Secretary—J. A. Steward, M.B.E.

Secretary for Finance—C. R. Latimer, C.B.E.

Assistant Secretaries—N. V. Redman; V. Gillett, M.B.E.

Attorney-General—A. C. Thompson, C.B.E., M.C.; Q.C.

Crown Counsel—C. B. O'Beirne.

Agent for High Commission Territories in Johannesburg—G. J. Armstrong, C.M.G., C.B.E.

JUDICIARY

Chief Justice of Basutoland the Bechuanaland Protectorate and Swaziland—Sir Herbert Cox.

Puisne Judge—I. V. Elyan.

BASUTOLAND

RESIDENT COMMISSIONER—A. G. T. Chaplin, C.M.G.

Deputy Resident Commissioner and Government Secretary—G. M. Hector, O.B.E.

Financial Secretary—E. C. Allen, O.B.E.

First Assistant Secretary—F. G. Muirhead, O.B.E.

Administrative Officers (Staff Grade)—H. J. D. Elliot, C.B.E.; R. E. K. Murray, O.B.E.

Director of Livestock and Agricultural Services—P. A. Bowmaker, O.B.E.

Principal Agricultural Officer—D. B. Campbell, M.C.

Principal Veterinary Officer—P. H. Brown.

Director of Audit (for the High Commission Territories)—D. E. Bragg.

Senior Auditor—A. C. Wilson.

Registrar of Co-operative Societies—B. J. Youngjohns.

Director of Education—D. R. Day.

Senior Education Officer—J. Walton.

Legal Secretary—B. L. O'Leary.

Director of Medical Services—R. Jacobson, O.B.E.

Commissioner of Police—P. H. Kitson, O.B.E.

Deputy Commissioner of Police—P. C. Temple.

Controller of Posts and Telegraphs—N. L. Smyth.

Director of Public Works—M. S. Barnes.

BECHUANALAND PROTECTORATE

RESIDENT COMMISSIONER—M. O. Wray, C.M.G., O.B.E.

Deputy Resident Commissioner and Government Secretary—R. P. Fawcus, O.B.E.

First Assistant Secretary—S. V. Lawrenson, O.B.E.

Administrative Officers (Staff Grade)—J. D. A. Germond, C.B.E.; J. F. Millard, O.B.E.

Director of Agriculture—I. S. Hutcheson.

Development Officer—R. A. R. Bent.

Director of Education—J. Gardiner.

Director of Geological Survey—C. Boocock.

Director of Medical Services—B. T. Squires, O.B.E.

Commissioner of Police—J. T. A. Bailey.

Deputy Commissioner of Police—R. M. Williams.

Director of Public Works—D. D. Grieve.

Deputy Director of Public Works—(Vacant).

Treasurer—G. A. L. Rutledge.

Director of Veterinary Services—K. Unsworth.

Deputy Director, Veterinary Services—M. S. Reichert.

SWAZILAND

RESIDENT COMMISSIONER—B. A. Marwick, C.B.E.

Deputy Resident Commissioner and Government Secretary—R. Armstrong, O.B.E.

First Assistant Secretary (Finance)—J. C. Martin.

First Assistant Secretary—H. J. Steward, O.B.E.

Senior District Commissioners—D. F. G. Silburn; J. F. B. Purcell, M.B.E.

Director of Education—W. E. C. Pitcher.

Director of Geological Surveys—H. J. R. Way, O.B.E.

Labour Officer—P. R. Forsyth-Thompson.

Director of Land Utilization—C. J. van Heerden.

Principal Agricultural Officer—J. D. Hunter-Smith.

Principal Veterinary Officer—J. H. Schuss.

Legal Secretary—S. J. Walker.

Director of Medical Services—B. D. Whitworth.

Commissioner of Police—L. W. Clarke, O.B.E.

Deputy Commissioner of Police—L. P. Pretious.

Director of Public Works—P. St. C. Ballenden.

Treasurer—H. M. J. Underhay.
| Colony, etc. | Office. | Name. | Date of Commission. | Date of Assumption of Government. | Place of Residence. | Emoluments. | Notes. |
|--------------|---------|-------|--------------------|----------------------------------|---------------------|-------------|--------|
| ADEN         | Governor and Commander-in-Chief. | Sir William Luce, K.C.M.G., K.B.E. | 15.8.56 | 17.8.56 | Aden | £3,750 | £2,000 (duty). £8,700 | £5,750 Also receives £4,200 towards expenses of Government House. (1) From Bahamas Crown Funds representing salary in respect of post of Comptroller of Crown Lands. |
| BAHAMAS      | "       | Sir Raynor Arthur, K.C.M.O., C.V.O. | 5.3.57 | 1.4.57 | Nassau | £6,500 | £1,200 (duty). £1,000 | |
| BARBADOS     | "       | Sir Robert Arundell, K.C.M.G., O.B.E. | 7.5.53 | 14.5.53 | Bridgetown | £4,000 | £1,500 (duty). | £5,500 Also receives £300 from Baron Bliss Trust. |
| BERMUDA      | "       | Lieutenant-General Sir John Woodall, K.B.E., C.B., M.C. | 28.9.55 | 24.10.55 | Hamilton | £5,100 | £2,000 (entertainment). | £7,100 |
| BRITISH GUIANA | "       | Sir Patrick Renison, K.C.M.G. | 29.9.55 | 25.10.55 | Georgetown | £5,000 | £2,000 (duty). | £7,000 |
| BRITISH HONDURAS | "       | Sir Colin Thornley, K.C.M.G., C.V.O. | 29.12.55 | 17.1.56 | Belize | £12,000 | $3,000 (duty). | $15,000 |
| BRUNEI (see SARAWAK) | "       | " | " | " | Nicosia | £5,500 | £2,500 (duty). | £8,000 |
| CYPRUS       | "       | Sir Hugh Foot, G.C.M.G., O.B.E. | 29.11.57 | 3.12.57 | Port Stanley | £2,500 | £650 (duty). | £3,150 |
| FALKLAND ISLANDS | "       | E. P. A. Rowsmith, C.M.G. | 25.2.57 | 28.4.57 | " | " | " | " |
| Country       | Governor                          | Date       | Location   | Salary (£) | Duty (£) |
|--------------|-----------------------------------|------------|------------|-----------|---------|
| Fiji         | Sir Ronald Garvey, K.C.M.G., M.B.E. | 3.7.52     | Suva       | £1,750    | £1,300  |
| Gambia       | "designate"                       |            | Bathurst   | £5,000    | £900    |
| Gibraltar    | General Sir Charles Keightley, G.C.B., G.B.E., D.S.O. |            | Gibraltar  | £5,000    | £6,585  |
| Hong Kong    | Sir Robert Black, K.C.M.G., O.B.E. | 6.1.58     | Victoria   | £5,500    | £3,000  |
| Jamaica      | Captain-General and Governor-in-Chief. |            | Kingston   | £4,800    | £1,500  |
| Kenya        | Governor and Commander-in-Chief. | 1.7.52     | Nairobi    | £6,000    | £4,500  |
| Leeward Islands | The Honourable Sir Evelyn Baring, G.C.M.G., K.C.V.O. | 28.1.57   | St. John's Antigua | £3,000    | £1,250  |
| Malta        | Sir Alexander Williams, K.C.M.G., M.B.E. | 3.9.54    | Valletta   | £4,000    | £3,000  |
| Mauritius    | Major-General Sir Robert Laycock, K.C.M.G., C.B., D.S.O. | 18.12.53  | Port Louis | Rs.55,000 | Rs.75,000 |

Notes:
- Also receives £150 as Councillor-General.
- (1) From Army funds.
- (2) In lieu of exemption from customs duties.

[FT.O.]
| Colony, etc | Office | Name | Date of Commission | Date of Assumption of Government | Place of Residence | Emoluments | Notes |
|-------------|--------|------|-------------------|-------------------------------|------------------|------------|-------|
| FEDERATION OF NIGERIA | Governor-General and Commander-in-Chief | Sir James Robertson, G.C.M.G., G.C.V.O., K.B.E. | 24.5.55 | 15.6.55 | Lagos | £7,150 | £10,130 (duty). |
| NORTHERN REGION OF NIGERIA | Governor | Sir Gawain Bell, K.C.M.G., C.B.E. | 14.10.57 | 30.11.57 | Kaduna | £4,500 | £6,000 |
| EASTERN REGION OF NIGERIA | " | Sir Robert Stapledon, K.C.M.G., C.B.E. | 5.12.56 | 14.12.56 | Enugu | £4,500 | £6,000 |
| WESTERN REGION OF NIGERIA | " | Sir John Rankine, K.C.M.G., K.C.V.O. | 8.9.54 † | 1.10.54 | Ibadan | £4,500 | £6,000 |
| NORTH BORNEO | Governor and Commander-in-Chief | Sir Roland Turnbull, K.C.M.G. | 1.1.54 | 4.3.54 | Jesselton | £4,200 | £6,700 |
| NORTHERN RHODESIA | Governor | Sir Arthur Benson, K.C.M.G. | 3.5.54 | 25.5.54 | Lusaka | £5,500 | £8,000 |
| NYASALAND PROTECTORATE | " | Sir Robert Armitage, K.C.M.G., M.B.E. | 12.12.55 | 10.4.56 | Zomba | £4,500 | £6,000 |
| SAINT HELENA | Governor and Commander-in-Chief | R. E. Alford, C.M.G. | 28.1.58 | | Plantation House | £1,500 | £1,900 |
| SARAWAK | " | Sir Anthony Abell, K.C.M.G. | 22.2.50 | 4.4.50 | Kuching | £4,500 | £7,000 |
| SEYCHELLES | " | J. K. R. Thorp, C.M.G., M.B.E. | 12.12.57 | 13.1.58 | Port Victoria | £1,950 | £2,550 |
| SIERRA LEONE | " | Sir Maurice Dorman, K.C.M.G. | 20.8.56 | 1.9.56 | Freetown | £4,500 | £6,250 |

† This appointment became effective from 1.10.54 by provision in the Commission.

See also under Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland.
| Country                        | Governor                          | Appointment Date | Rate (£) |
|-------------------------------|-----------------------------------|------------------|----------|
| SINGAPORE                     | Sir William Goode, K.C.M.G.       | 9.12.57          | £7,500*  |
|                               | Sir Theodore Pike, K.C.M.G.       |                  | £2,500* (duty) |
| SOMALILAND PROTECTORATE       | Sir R. G. Turnbull, K.C.M.G.      |                  | £3,000   |
| TANGANYIKA                    | Sir Edward Beetham, K.C.M.G., C.V.O., O.B.E. | 6.5.55 | £5,000   |
| TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO           | Sir Frederick Crawford, K.C.M.G., O.B.E. | 21.1.57 | £5,000   |
| UGANDA                        | Rt. Hon. Lord Hailes, G.B.E.     |                  | £12,000  |
| WEST INDIES                   | Governor-General and Commander-in-Chief | 1.10.57 | £40,800  |
| WESTERN PACIFIC WINDWARD ISLANDS | High Commissioner. |                  |          |
| ZANZIBAR                      | British Resident.                 |                  |          |
| FEDERATION OF RHODESIA AND NYASALAND | Governor-General and Commander-in-Chief |                  |          |
| THE HIGH COMMISSIONER         | Sir Percival Ileschweg, G.C.M.G., K.C.B., K.C.Y.O. | 11.12.54 |          |

*Temporary rate.

†In lieu of exemptions from customs duties.

Is also High Commissioner for the United Kingdom in the Union of South Africa. Emoluments are in respect of both appointments.
GOVERNMENT AGENCIES IN LONDON

BAHAMAS GOVERNMENT INFORMATION BUREAU
21 Berkeley Square, W.l.
Telephone : MAYfair 0040.
Manager—Mrs. C. Williamson.

The primary function of the Bureau is to advise, and give information to, intending visitors or those who contemplate retiring to the Colony.

BERMUDA TRAVEL INFORMATION OFFICE
6 Lower Regent Street, S.W.l.
Telephone : TRAfalgar 3373.
Manager—E. G. Steel.

The Office is maintained by the Bermuda Trade Development Board, a Department of the Bermuda Government responsible for the development of the Colony's trade, and particularly the tourist trade. The Board, which also maintains information offices in the United States and in Canada, first established an office in London in 1925.

The purpose of the Office is to assist the development of tourist trade to Bermuda and to provide intending visitors and travel agents with information and literature concerning the Colony.

CYPRUS GOVERNMENT LONDON OFFICE
15 Victoria Street, S.W.l.
Telephone : ABBey 6821-2-3.
Telegrams : Cypruscom London.
Commissioner—P. G. Constantinides, O.B.E.

The London Office of the Government of Cyprus was first opened in 1928. The duties of the London Office are to carry out all tasks assigned to it by the Government of Cyprus, to assist and develop trade between Cyprus and the United Kingdom, to promote the Cyprus tourist industry, to help students and Government scholars to find places in suitable Schools, Colleges and Universities, and follow their progress, and to give the Cypriot community in the United Kingdom such advice and assistance as they may require. An Administrative Officer of the Cyprus Government is in charge of the Office, with the title of "Commissioner". The Commissioner is now the representative in London of the Government of Cyprus and works under the direction of the Cyprus Government and, as may be appropriate, of the Colonial Office.

EAST AFRICAN OFFICE
Grand Buildings, Trafalgar Square, W.C.2.
Telephone : WHItehall 5701/2/3.
Commissioner—Sir Arthur F. Kirby, K.B.E., C.M.G.

This Office was established in 1925 by the Governments of the East African Territories, and the Kenya-Uganda Transport Administration. It is now one of the Scheduled Services administered by the East Africa High Commission.

The creation of such an office was recommended by the Parliamentary Commission which visited East Africa in 1924.

The functions of the Office are to give information and all possible help to persons interested in the East African Territories in regard to settlement, commerce, immigration, professional appointments and tourist travel, and to stimulate interest in capital investment in those Territories as well as to assist East African products to find markets in the United Kingdom and elsewhere.

HONG KONG GOVERNMENT OFFICE
Grand Buildings, Trafalgar Square, W.C.2.
Telephone : WHItehall 1648 and 0081.
Director—E. G. A. Grimwood.

The Office seeks to promote increased trade between Hong Kong and the United Kingdom, as well as other areas, and to disseminate information about the Colony.

OFFICE OF THE TRADE COMMISSIONER FOR SINGAPORE IN THE UNITED KINGDOM
16 Northumberland Avenue, W.C.2.
Telephone : TRAfalgar 5061.
Trade Commissioner—J. N. Davies.
Information Officer—(Vacant).

The Office is maintained by the Government of the Colony of Singapore. The main functions of the Office are to foster Singapore trade, supplying statistical and other information and organizing Singapore representation at trade and industrial exhibitions, to publicize Singapore's produce and attractions and to furnish intending travellers and visitors with general information and advice; and to provide information on Singapore to the Press, the B.B.C. and News Agencies.

The Office undertakes for the Singapore Governments work that does not fall within the scope of the Crown Agents for Oversea Governments and Administrations, who are the recognized financial and buying agents of this Government.

The Malayan Students' Unit, which is responsible for the welfare of students from Malaya and Singapore, is situated at Grand Buildings, Trafalgar Square, W.C.2. (Telephone : Whitehall 3721, Senior Officer-in-Charge, D. K. Daniels, O.B.E.)

A Reading Room is available for the use of the general public at 16 Northumberland Avenue during office hours. Maps, publications and photographs can be supplied (on payment in some cases).
MALTA GOVERNMENT OFFICE

Malta House, Haymarket, S.W.1.
Telephone: TRAfalgar 5033-4.

Commissioner-General—E. Ellul.

This Office was established in 1930 as an "Agency-General", Malta being at that time a self-governing colony. In 1933, when self-government was suspended, the Agency-General was discontinued and a Trade Commissioner was appointed. Following the restoration of self-government to the Island in 1947, a Commissioner-General was appointed. The primary object of "Malta House" is to deal with all questions concerning Malta, including such matters as export trade with the United Kingdom, representation at trade exhibitions, advertisement of products and attractions, fostering of tourist trade, supply of general information as to conditions and facilities to intending travellers, assistance in arranging air or sea passages, dealing with trade and business enquiries concerning the Island. It also deals with the welfare work connected with Maltese living in this country and assists them in finding suitable occupations.

MAURITIUS HOUSE

16, Upper Montagu Street, W.1.
Telephone: AMBassador 2481.

Secretary—A. Menage.

Mauritius House was founded during the second world war by Viscountess Kemsley, for the benefit of Mauritians serving in the Forces. It now carries out welfare work, particularly among students, and acts as an information centre for the Colony.

Mauritius House is financed by the Government of Mauritius but is controlled by a private company, which until January 1951 operated under the War Charities Act and is now incorporated under the Companies Act, 1948.

NIGERIA HOUSE

9 Northumberland Avenue, W.C.2.
Telephone: TRAfalgar 1244.

Commissioner for Nigeria in the United Kingdom—M. T. Mbu.

Principal Secretary—H. B. Cox, C.B.E.
Economic Secretary—D. H. Rosser, O.B.E.
Secretary for Student Affairs—A. B. Oyediran.
Principal Information Officer—G. A. Fagbure.
Commissioner, Eastern Region—T. O. C. Ojiako.
Secretary—N. U. Akpan.
Commissioner, Northern Region—Alhaji Abdulmaliki.
Secretary—C. J. L. Reynolds.
Commissioner, Western Region—M. S. Sowole.
178-202 Great Portland Street, W.1.
Telephone: LANgham 8611.
Secretary—J. E. Imoukhuede.
Students Department—
26 Grosvenor Gardens, S.W.1.
Telephone: SLOane 3417).

The principal functions of Nigeria House are:

(a) The promotion and fostering of Nigeria's overseas trade and of economic development in Nigeria.

(b) The maintenance of a service to provide information about Nigeria.

(c) The giving of such assistance in the recruitment of staff, additional to that provided by the Colonial Office and the Crown Agents for Oversea Governments and Administrations, as may be required by the Government of the Federation or the Government of any Region or of the Southern Cameroons, or by local authorities or other official bodies.

(d) Liaison with officials and unofficials whose duties or business relate to matters affecting the welfare of Nigeria.

(e) The provision of a central organization through which Nigerians in the United Kingdom can be directed to the various agencies established for their benefit in the United Kingdom and through which the activities of those organizations can be co-ordinated.

(f) Arrangements for travel and accommodation of important visitors from Nigeria.

(h) Such functions in connexion with the training of Nigerians for the representation of their country abroad and for duties connected with Nigeria's relations with other countries as may from time to time be entrusted to it by the Government of the Federation.

OFFICE OF THE HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR THE FEDERATION OF RHODESIA AND NYASALAND

Rhodesia House, 429 Strand, W.C.2.
Telephone: COVent Garden 1212.
Cables: Rhodesians, London.

High Commissioner—Sir Gilbert Rennie, G.B.E., K.C.M.G., M.C.

Information Attaché—L. F. G. Anthony.

The first Federal High Commissioner took office on 1st April, 1954. Before becoming a Federal Office, Rhodesia House was the Office of the High Commissioner for Southern Rhodesia, having been opened in 1935. Rhodesia was administered by the British South Africa (Charter) Company prior to 1923, when it obtained responsible government; now, on a Federal basis, Rhodesia House provides a direct link between the Federal Government in Salisbury and Her Majesty's Government. Its primary function is to portray the Federation to the people of the United Kingdom, and it deals among many matters with trade, immigration, recruitment, tourism and general information and publicity on the three territories (Northern Rhodesia, Southern Rhodesia and Nyasaland).

OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER FOR NORTHERN RHODESIA

57 Haymarket, S.W.1.
Telephone: WHIttehall 5858.
Cables: Norhodcom London.

Commissioner—J. H. Wallace, C.M.G.
The functions of the Office are to carry out the requests and instructions of the Northern Rhodesia Government and to co-operate with the Office of the High Commissioner for the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland, the Colonial Office and the Crown Agents for Oversea Governments and Administrations as occasion demands; to act as a trade and general information agency and to provide publicity for the territory in the United Kingdom; to assist the flow of trade in both directions and generally to further the interests of Northern Rhodesia and its people.

The Office assists in the recruitment of staff for the Government and local authorities.

SIERRA LEONE AND GAMBIA OFFICE

120 Pall Mall, S.W.1.

Telephone: TRAFalgar 4701.

Commissioner—A. M. Sim.

The Office was established by the Sierra Leone and Gambia Governments in 1954, its main functions being: to foster trade with Sierra Leone and the Gambia; to assist visitors from those territories; to undertake publicity and information services in the United Kingdom; to assist in the recruitment of staff for government and quasi-government posts in Sierra Leone and the Gambia; and to undertake general supervision of students in the United Kingdom.

OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER FOR THE WEST INDIES, BRITISH GUIANA AND BRITISH HONDURAS

6-10 Bruton Street, W.1.

Telephone: GROsvenor 3871-5.

Cables: Witracom London.

Commissioner—G. H. Gordon, C.B.E., Q.C.

Deputy Commissioner—A. I. Morais.

REGIONAL ORGANIZATIONS

A feature of British colonial policy is the encouragement of regional co-operation between Colonies, wherever practicable. In this way there is not only a valuable sharing of knowledge and experience, but also, in certain instances, a substantial measure of economy from the unified control of technical services. The following are the principal regional organizations.

CIVIL AVIATION

(a) British Caribbean Air Transport Advisory Council

The Directorate-General of Civil Aviation in the British Caribbean Area was abolished in May, 1954, and the Council was established in July, 1954, by the Governments of Barbados, British Guiana, British Honduras, Jamaica, the Leeward Islands, Trinidad and Tobago and the Windward Islands, who meet between them the cost of its organization. It meets at least once a year and its membership consists of one representative of each of the above Governments and a representative of the United Kingdom who may attend as an observer.

The main functions of the Council are:

(1) To keep under review and to promote the progress and development of civil air communications in the British Caribbean area.

(2) To keep under review all matters affecting Governments which relate to Agreements with any operators of aircraft or air services.

(3) To serve as a medium for the exchange of views and information between members on civil air transport matters.

(4) To provide a means of co-operation on a regional basis with the United Kingdom Government.

(5) To consider and advise on such civil aviation matters as may be referred to the Council by the Governments of member territories.

There is also a Standing Technical Committee of the Council meeting at least twice a year. Its primary function is to advise the Council on
technical matters and to obtain as wide a measure of common action by Governments as is possible to ensure that technical practices in the area, including airfield conditions, ground facilities, airworthiness, safety measures and international requirements, are co-ordinated and standardized. The members of the Committee are the Directors of Civil Aviation of each member Government, the Director of the British Caribbean Meteorological Service, the Resident Surveyor or the Air Registration Board and a representative of the United Kingdom Government who may attend as an observer.

Changes in the organization are expected to take place during 1958 as a result of the setting up of the West Indies Federation.

Administrative Secretary of the Council—J. A. Marryshow.

(b) East Africa.

The East African Air Transport Authority was set up by Order in Council in 1945, to control aircraft flying for hire and reward. The functions of the Authority were taken over on the 1st January, 1948, by the East Africa High Commission.

Following a meeting of the East Africa High Commission in March 1951, an Air Advisory Council was set up by administrative action pending the necessary legal enactment to establish the Council as a statutory body. The Council, which meets about twice a year, consists of the Commissioner for Transport as ex officio chairman, two members appointed by each of the Governments of Kenya, Tanganyika and Uganda and one by the British Resident, Zanzibar, and in addition two members appointed by the High Commission.

The functions of the Council are:

(i) to be advisory to the East Africa High Commission, whose authority is exercised through the Commissioner for Transport;

(ii) to advise on all questions of major policy affecting Civil Aviation within the jurisdiction of the East Africa High Commission and on any civil aviation matters referred to it by the East Africa High Commission acting through the Commissioner for Transport;

(iii) to advise on the Annual Estimates of the Directorate of Civil Aviation before they are submitted to the Central Legislative Assembly and the Estimates Committee of the Central Legislative Assembly;

(iv) to advise on all Civil Aviation legislation coming within the scope of the Central Legislative Assembly;

(v) to advise on the steps necessary to achieve a policy of co-ordination between Civil Aviation and all other forms of transport.

Director of Civil Aviation, East Africa—Comdr. S. W. D. Colls, A.F.C., R.N. (ret.).

(c) West African Air Transport Authority.

The Authority was set up under the West African Territories (Air Transport) Order in Council, 1946, to control aircraft flying for hire and reward. It meets about twice a year and membership consists of the Officer administering the Government of the Federation of Nigeria as President; the Chief Secretary, West African Inter-Territorial Secretariat; and representatives of each of the Governments participating in the Authority. Owing to constitutional developments, the future of the Authority is now under review.

Director of Civil Aviation, West Africa—Wing Comdr. E. H. Coleman, A.F.C.

(d) South-East Asia and Hong Kong.

The Commissioner-General's Conference decided in 1955 to become directly responsible for the co-ordination of civil aviation activities in the South-East Asia/Hong Kong region and abolished the Air Transport Council, whose functions it had, in fact, been discharging. (These functions are):

(i) to keep under review the general development of Civil Air Communications in South-East Asia and between South-East Asia and Hong Kong;

(ii) to co-ordinate air transport policy for the region and to co-ordinate and promote the orderly and economic development of trunk, regional, and local air services by British interests, within the framework of the general policy which may from time to time be agreed between the United Kingdom and the other Governments concerned;

(iii) to consider and advise on such matters relating to civil aviation in the region as any member Government may desire to refer to the Conference;

(iv) to serve as a medium for the exchange of information and views on civil aviation matters affecting the region;

(v) to provide a link between the United Kingdom and British territories in the region in matters of mutual interest in the field of civil aviation.

The Conference, which is attended by the High Commissioner for the Federation of Malaya and the Governors of Hong Kong, Singapore, Sarawak and North Borneo, normally meets at six-monthly intervals under the chairmanship of the Commissioner-General, South-East Asia.

The Air Transport Advisory Committee, set up in 1952, continues to function and advises the Commissioner-General's Conference on matters affecting civil aviation in the region. This Committee now consists of the Director-General of Civil Aviation, Singapore, the Directors of Civil Aviation, Hong Kong, Federation of Malaya and British Borneo territories, and the Civil Aviation Adviser to the Commissioner-General, who is also Secretary. The Civil Aviation Adviser is at present an official seconded from the Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation.

A new Committee, entitled the Directors of Civil Aviation Committee (Malaya/Borneo) was established in 1955, after the Director-General of Civil Aviation, Singapore, ceased to have direct responsibility for matters affecting the whole Malaya/Borneo region. This new Committee, which consists of the Director-General of Civil Aviation, Singapore, and the Directors of Civil Aviation in the Federation of Malaya and the British Borneo territories, is now responsible for co-ordinating the development of civil aviation in the Malaya/Borneo territories, subject, of course, to reference to the Governments concerned.

The establishment of fresh consultative machinery appropriate to the new constitutional position is under consideration.
DEVELOPMENT AND WELFARE ORGANIZATION IN THE WEST INDIES

With the coming into being of the Federation of the West Indies on the 3rd January, 1958, the functions of the Development and Welfare Organization will be largely assumed by the Federal Government. The Organization will therefore cease to function on the 31st March, 1958.

This Organization was set up in 1940, as a result of the recommendations of the West India Royal Commission (Cmd. 6607); its primary function has been to work out, in collaboration with local governments, long-term programmes of social reform and schemes of development and welfare for which grants from United Kingdom funds under the Colonial Development and Welfare Acts might be recommended.

The Organization has provided expert technical advice to the Secretary of State and the Colonial Governments on matters not covered by the Development and Welfare Acts. It has also acted as a centre for regional conferences on economic and technical projects, and in various other ways functioned as a co-ordinating secretariat.

The Comptroller and his Labour Adviser have been Chairman and Deputy Chairman respectively of the British West Indies Regional Labour Board, which is the body responsible for the programme of employment of British West Indies agricultural workers on contract in the United States of America.

The Comptroller's Report for 1955–1956, Col. No. 335, 1957, may be obtained from Her Majesty's Stationery Office.

EAST AFRICA HIGH COMMISSION

CONSTITUTION, SCOPE AND LEGISLATIVE POWERS

The establishment of an East Africa High Commission (headquarters are at Nairobi, Kenya), with effect from 1st January, 1948, to replace the East African Governors' Conference, was announced in the House of Commons by the Secretary of State for the Colonies on 28th July, 1947.

The High Commission, consisting of the Governors of Kenya, Tanganyika and Uganda, was constituted by Order in Council and was charged with the administration of the following services:

(1) The Secretariat of the High Commission.
(2) The East African Anti-Locust Directorate.
(3) The East African Directorate of Civil Aviation.
(4) The East African Directorate of Training.
(5) The East African Income Tax Department.
(6) The East African Industrial Council.
(7) The East African Inter-Territorial Languages Committee.
(8) The East African Office in London.
(9) The East African Posts and Telegraphs Department.
(10) The East African Committee for Economic Co-ordination.
(11) The East African Publicity Committee.
(12) The East African Refugee Administration.
(13) The East African Research Services.
(14) The East African Statistical Department.
(15) The East African Tsetse Reclamation Department.
(16) The Lake Victoria Fisheries Board.
(17) The East African Meteorological Department.
(18) Services connected with the maintenance of contact between the Territories and the Defence Services.
(19) Services arising out of the functions of the High Commission as East African Air Transport Authority.
(20) Services of Inter-Territorial import arising from the operation in the Territories of the East African Currency Board.

The East African Directorate of Training and the East African Refugee Administration completed their tasks and ceased to operate in 1949 and 1951 respectively. The administration of the East African Inter-Territorial Languages (Swahili) Committee was taken over by Makerere College in 1952. The East African Publicity Committee has not been formed.

In 1948 the following additional services fell, upon their formation, within the administrative sphere of the High Commission:

The East African Railways and Harbours Administration.
The East African Literature Bureau.
The Desert Locust Survey.

On the 1st January, 1948, the East African Research Services included:

(a) The East African Agriculture and Forestry Research Organization.
(b) The East African Veterinary Research Organization.
(c) The East African Fishery Research Organization.
(d) The East African Industrial Research Board.

Since that date the following Research and Scientific Services have been added:

(a) The Desert Locust Survey and Control.
(b) The East African Medical Survey.
(c) The East African Virus Research Institute.
(d) The East African Institute of Malaria and Vector-borne Diseases.
(e) The East African Leprosy Research Centre.
(f) The East African Marine Fisheries Research Organization.

The East African Customs and Excise Department was formed as a High Commission service, with effect from 1st January, 1949. The East African Naval Force was formed on the 1st July, 1950, and was constituted the Royal East African Navy on the 26th May, 1952. In 1950 the Desert Locust Control became a separate service under the High Commission, but it was amalgamated with the Desert Locust Survey on 1st July, 1957. The East African Posts and Telegraphs Department was re-designated the East African Posts and Telecommunications Administration with effect from the 1st October, 1951. The Accountant General's Office was established on the 1st April, 1953.

Under the Order in Council the following services will also be administered by the High Commission upon their formation:

The East African Information Office.
The East African Radio-communications Service.
The East African Regional Geological Survey.
The East African Regional Topographical Survey.
Inter-territorial Services financed, in whole or part, by means of grants made to the High Commission from the East African Regional Allocation under the Colonial Development and Welfare Acts.

Such further Research Services as may be set up on an East African basis.

Certain of these services have been re-named so that their designations may correspond more closely with their present functions.

The East Africa Central Legislative Assembly was established by the East Africa (High Commission) Order in Council, 1947, for a period of four years from the 1st January, 1948. The Order in Council has since been amended twice for the purpose of extending the life of the Assembly, on the second occasion for a period of four years from 1st January, 1956. The Assembly held its first meeting in April 1948, and normally holds three meetings in an annual Session.

With effect from the 12th December 1956 membership of the East Africa Central Legislative Assembly was increased from 24 to 34. Hitherto the Assembly consisted of a Speaker, seven ex officio members, three nominated members and 13 unofficial members. There was no change regarding the Speaker and seven ex officio members, but nominated members were increased from three to six and the unofficial members from thirteen to twenty. Two nominated members are appointed by each of the Governors of Kenya, Tanganyika and Uganda. Six unofficial members are appointed from each territory, of whom three are appointed in each case by the Governor. In Kenya they need not be members of the Kenya Legislative Council. The other three from each territory are elected. In Kenya they are elected one from each of the racial groups of European, Asian and African elected members of Legislative Council. In Tanganyika the other three are elected by Representative Members of the Legislative Council from among all members of the Council. The other three from Uganda are elected by the Representative Members of the Legislative Council from among their own number. Two Arab unofficial members are appointed by the East Africa High Commission.

The High Commission has power to legislate, with the advice and consent of the Assembly, in respect of and in connexion with, the inter-territorial services. It also has power to legislate with the advice and consent of the Legislative Councils of the three territories on any matter concerned with the peace, order and good government of the Territories. It has power to appoint such advisory and consultative bodies as it may think fit in respect of any matter which is subject to the control of the High Commission or is of common interest to the territories.

The establishment of the High Commission has involved no change in the constitution or administrative responsibilities of the Governments of the three Territories, which remain responsible for the basic services such as administration, police, health, education, agriculture, animal health, forestry, labour, housing and public works.

The East African Railways and Harbours Administration and the East African Posts and Telecommunications Administration are self-contained and self-financing services. The revenue of the High Commission, from which its other services are financed, is derived from contributions in agreed proportions by the three East African Governments, also by the Government of Zanzibar and certain other Governments for which services are performed, and by Her Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom which makes substantial contributions to the Research and other Services from the Colonial Development and Welfare Fund. The whole of the expenditure is controlled by the East Africa Central Legislative Assembly.

RESEARCH AND SCIENTIFIC SERVICES

RESEARCH SERVICES

The Research Services administered by the High Commission at present are arranged in the following six principal divisions:

East African Agriculture and Forestry Research Organization incorporating the former East African Agricultural Research Institute at Amani in Tanganyika, and including the East African Herbarium, Nairobi; and attached temporary schemes. The organization is responsible for research on certain aspects of animal industry in addition to agriculture and forestry. The headquarters are at Muguga, within easy reach of Nairobi, and are shared with the East African Veterinary Research Organization.

The East African Veterinary Research Organization is responsible for research on animal diseases and other aspects of animal industry.

The East African Trypanosomiasis Research Organization of the East Africa High Commission has four branches: tsetse research based on Shinyanga with sub-stations in each of the East African territories; trypanosomiasis research, animal and human, based on Sukulu in Uganda with a sub-station (Tinde) in Tanganyika; practical and experimental reclamation in the three territories; the headquarters are at Tororo in Uganda.

The East African Fisheries Research Organization is in two sections, one for the fisheries of inland waters with headquarters at Jinja in Uganda, the other for marine fisheries at Zanzibar—the East African Marine Fisheries Research Organization.

The East African Industrial Research Board has headquarters in Nairobi and is at present concerned with research on secondary industries, but plans exist for establishing an East African Scientific and Industrial Research Organization which will incorporate the Industrial Research Board and will have wider functions.

The Medical Research Division includes the East African Leprosy Research Centre at Itesio in Kenya, the Virus Research Institute at Entebbe in Uganda, the Medical Survey based on Mwanza in Tanganyika and the Institute of Malaria and Vector-borne Diseases at Amani in Tanganyika.

SCIENTIFIC SERVICES

The Scientific Services include some research among their functions and are as follows:

The East African Statistical Department consists of five units. These are situated in Nairobi, Entebbe and Dar es Salaam. The head of the organization is the Statistical Adviser to the East African Governments and to the High Commission and Director of the Depart-
The East African Meteorological Department has its Headquarters and Central Forecast Organization at Nairobi and maintains Regional Headquarters at Dar es Salaam and Entebbe. It is responsible for the maintenance and study of meteorological records in all parts of East Africa and for weather forecasting, for aviation and other uses.

The Lake Victoria Fisheries Service has headquarters at Kisumu in Kenya and is responsible for the development and control of the fisheries of Lake Victoria, which are shared by the three High Commission Territories.

The Desert Locust Survey has headquarters in Nairobi, but maintains field units in territories to the north of East Africa, keeping close watch and conducting investigations in the areas. Control operations are carried out as required in the same areas.

COMMUNICATIONS

RAILWAYS AND HARBOURS

The East African Railways and Harbours Administration is a service of the East Africa High Commission. In law control is exercised by the Commissioner for Transport who is advised by the Transport Advisory Council. The executive management of the Administration is vested in the General Manager.

Railways

The railways are metre gauge with a total mileage of open line of 3,376.

Kenya/Uganda Section

Main Line—Mombasa–Kasese (1,081 miles).

Principal Lines—Nakuru Junction–Kisumu (131 miles); Tororo–Soroti (100 miles); Voi–Kahe Junction (94 miles); Nairobi–Nanyuki (145 miles).

Minor and Branch Lines—Gilgil–Thomson’s Falls (48 miles); Kisumu–Butere (43 miles); Rongai–Lake Solai (27 miles); Leseru–Kitale (41 miles); Mbulamuti–Namasagali (19 miles); Kampala–Port Bell (6 miles).

Lines operated but not owned—Konza–Lake Magadi Line (91 miles).

Tanganyika Section

Main Line—Dar es Salaam–Kigoma (779 miles).

Principal Lines—Tabora–Mwanza (236 miles); Tanga–Moshi–Arusha (272 miles).

Branch Lines—Kaliwa–Mpanda (131 miles).

Southern Province Railway—Mtwarra–Nachingwea (132 miles).

Marine Services

Steamer services are operated on Lake Victoria, Lake Kyoga, Lake Albert and Lake Tanganyika and on the River Nile, over routes totalling 6,300 miles.

Ports

The principal ports operated are:

Kenya—Mombasa (Kilindini). Eight deep water berths with three others under construction; a bulk oil jetty and a lighterage berth.

Tanganyika—Dar es Salaam (three deep water berths, lighterage wharves and a bulk oil jetty); Tanga (lighterage wharves only); Mtwarra (two deep water berths), Lindi (limited lighterage facilities).

General Information—1956

Inland Transport Services

| Revenue | £17,279,000 |
|---------|-------------|
| Expenditure | £13,649,000 |
| Number of passenger journeys | 5,828,000 |
| Goods—Revenue earning—tons | 3,881,000 |

Harbours

| Revenue | £4,367,000 |
|---------|-------------|
| Expenditure | £3,300,000 |
| Tonnage of cargo dealt with (Harbour tons) | 4,648,000 |

ROAD SERVICES

Road Services are operated over a total of 2,673 route miles. Of this total, 2,118 route miles in Tanganyika connect the Central and Tanga Lines and provide regular transport to and from the Southern Highlands. In Uganda a route mileage of 385 is operated between Masindi Port, Masindi Town and Butiaba, connecting Lake Kyoga with Lake Albert and the West Nile and between Masindi Town and Kampala. There is also a goods and parcels service between Kenya (Nairobi) and Tanganyika (Arusha), a distance of 170 miles.

AIR SAFETY SERVICES AND AERADIO SERVICES

The East African Directorate of Civil Aviation is based in Nairobi (see also Civil Aviation—East Africa—page 249).

An Air Traffic Control Centre and an Area Communications Centre are established at Eastleigh Aerodrome, Nairobi. Air traffic control is operated at Eastleigh, Nairobi West, Entebbe, Dar es Salaam, Tabora, Mombasa, Tanga and Zanzibar. Aeradio stations are established at Kisumu, Mwanza, Mbeya, Songea, Iringa, Dodoma, Mtwarra, Arusha and Moshi.

Ground to air H.F. and V.H.F. communications, navigational aids including medium frequency beacons and V.H.F., D.F. and fixed service communications are provided at all A.T.C. and Aeradio stations.

EAST AFRICAN POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS ADMINISTRATION

Altogether 438 centres, including Post Offices, Wireless Stations and Postal Agencies are maintained, at the majority of which both postal and telegraph facilities are available; 187 of these are in Kenya, 158 in Tanganyika and 93 in Uganda. There is an extensive internal telegraph system and the main centres are interconnected by teleprinter circuits. Just over 35,000 telephones are installed in the three territories. International telegraph and telephone services are maintained and operated by Messrs. Cable and Wireless Limited, who maintain establishments at Nairobi, Mombasa and Dar es Salaam.

THE HIGH COMMISSION

The Hon. Sir Evelyn Baring, G.C.M.G., K.C.V.O. (Chairman),
Sir Edward Twinning, G.C.M.G., M.B.E.,
Sir Frederick Crawford, K.C.M.G., O.B.E.
PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Administrator—Sir Bruce Hutt, K.B.E., C.M.G.
Commissioner for Transport—Maj.-Gen. W. D. A. Williams, C.B., C.B.E.
Financial Secretary—H. J. Hinchey, C.B.E.
Postmaster-General—R. E. German, C.M.G.

THE EAST AFRICA CENTRAL LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY

Speaker
Sir Vincent Glenday, K.C.M.G., O.B.E.

Ex Officio Members

Administrator.
Commissioner for Transport.
Financial Secretary.
Postmaster-General.
Commissioner of Customs.
Legal Secretary.
Economic Secretary.

6 Nominated Members (2 each from Kenya, Tanganyika and Uganda).

20 Unofficial Members (6 each from Kenya, Tanganyika and Uganda, and 2 Arab members appointed by the East Africa High Commission).

Clerk: M. N. Davidson.

CIVIL ESTABLISHMENT

Administrator—Sir Bruce Hutt, K.B.E., C.M.G.
Commissioner for Transport—Major-General W. D. A. Williams, C.B., C.B.E.
Financial Secretary—H. J. Hinchey, C.B.E.
Legal Secretary—C. D. Newbold, C.M.G., Q.C.
Economic Secretary—H. L. Adams, T.D.
Chief Administrative Secretary—A. G. Knox Johnston, C.M.G.
Chief Establishment Officer—W. R. Paterson.
Deputy Legal Secretary—J. C. Hooton, M.B.E. (Mil.)
Senior Assistant Legal Secretary—H. B. Livingstone.
Principal Assistant Secretary—H. M. L. Shearer.
Principal Assistant Secretary (Finance)—P. Coryndon.
Defence Secretary—(Vacant).
Accountant-General—F. B. Lee.
Assistant Accountant General—J. P. Scannell.
Reception Officer—E. M. Gare.
Medical Research Secretary—A. T. Howell, C.B.E.

East African Directorate of Civil Aviation

Director—Comdr. S. W. D. Colls, A.F.C., R.N. (Ret.)

East African Meteorological Department

Director—J. H. Brazell.
Assistant Director—J. P. Henderson.

East African Customs and Excise

Commissioner—F. Bishop.
Deputy Commissioner—R. W. H. Barnett.
Regional Commissioners—D. A. Tyrrell; G. R. Coats, M.B.E.; P. B. Dodd; E. R. Woolcock.
Chief Accountant and Statistical Officer—J. Walker.
Principal Collectors of Customs—W. E. E. Frederick; J. Burgess; R. F. J. Oxley; R. L. Collins.

East African Posts and Telecommunications Administration

Postmaster-General—R. E. German, C.M.G.
Assistant Postmaster-General (Services)—M. Warrender Richardson.
Assistant Postmaster-General (Finance) and Chief Accountant—(Vacant).
Assistant Postmaster-General (Engineering) and Engineer-in-Chief—M. W. Manson.

Department of Economic Co-ordination

Director—T. M. Loudon.
Deputy Director—J. Henderson.

East African Railways and Harbours

General Manager—J. R. Farquharson, C.B.E.
Deputy General Manager—W. Urquhart, C.B.E.
Chief Assistant to General Manager—R. M. L. Lemon.
Chief Establishment Officer—J. H. Collier-Wright.
Regional Representative (Tanganyika)—C. W. Leverett, O.B.E.
Regional Representative (Uganda)—L. L. Brown.
Ports Assistant to General Manager—(Vacant).
Principal Assistant (Works and Finance)—B. H. Simmons.
Principal Assistant (Research and Planning)—G. Wallwork.
Public Relations Officer—M. H. Archer.
Chief Commercial Superintendent—C. T. Hutson, O.B.E.
Assistant Chief Commercial Superintendent—C. I. Wotherspoon.
Chief Operating Superintendent—G. P. G. Mackay.
Assistant Chief Operating Superintendent—R. H. Whittington.
Senior Marine Officer—(Vacant).
Rates Assistant—G. Ellis.
Operating Assistant—W. Buttery, M.B.E.
Chief Engineer—C. T. Henfrey.
Assistant Chief Engineer (Technical)—J. M. Kesson.
Assistant Chief Engineer (Administration)—R. L. Rolph.
Assistant Chief Engineer (Construction)—P. H. Hicks.
Works Engineer—T. W. Eydes.
Planning Engineer—C. G. H. Rodgers.
Assistant Construction Engineer—J. M. Fogarty.
Chief Mechanical Engineer—J. Hudson.
Assistant Chief Mechanical Engineer (Motive Power)—H. B. Marshall.
Assistant Chief Mechanical Engineer (Technical)—W. E. Bulman.
Assistant Chief Mechanical Engineer (Workshops)—N. F. Stevens.
Works Manager—A. G. Cowley.
Chief Accountant—J. H. Baldwin, Q.B.E.
Assistant Chief Accountant—J. T. Ferguson.
Stores Superintendent—W. J. Lardner.
Assistant Stores Superintendent—L. G. Reece.
Chief Ports Manager—A. H. Earley, O.B.E.
Port Manager, Mombasa—J. F. C. Williams.
Assistant to Chief Ports Manager—F. R. F. Broomhead.

Director, East African Agriculture and Forestry Research Organization—E. W. Russell.
Deputy Director—H. C. Pereira.
Director, East African Fishery Research Organization—R. S. A. Beauchamp.
Director, East African Marine Fisheries Research Organization—J. F. G. Wheeler.
Chief Fisheries Officer, Lake Victoria Fisheries Service—J. D. Kelsall.
Director, East African Veterinary Research Organization—H. R. Binns, O.B.E.
Deputy Director—S. E. Piercy.
Commissioner of East African Income Tax—W. M. Wedderspoon.
Deputy Commissioner—J. L. Pembroke.
Assistant Deputy Commissioner—E. Jones; G. S. Davidson.
Regional Commissioners—J. R. Burgess; E. F. Bennett; W. R. Garner; G. W. Brown; A. H. Dobbie; R. F. Johnson; W. W. H. B. Camp.
Director, East African Industrial Research Board—H. B. Stent.
Chief Chemist—M. G. Edwards.
Director, East African Literature Bureau—C. G. Richards.
Director, East African Leprosy Research Centre—J. M. B. Garrod.
Director, Desert Locust Survey—P. R. Stephenson, O.B.E.
Senior Entomologist—R. C. Rainey.
Director, East African Institute of Malaria and Vector-borne Diseases—D. Bagster Wilson, O.B.E.
Director, East African Medical Survey—E. G. Holmes.
Director, East African Trypanosomiasis Research Organization—W. H. R. Lumsden.
Deputy Director—Maj. W. N. Scott.
Director, East African Virus Research Institute—A. J. Haddow.
Director, East African Statistical Department—C. J. Martin, M.B.E.
Assistant Director—L. W. Clarke, T.D.
Deputy Government Statisticians:
Kenya—P. M. Rees.
Tanganyika—(Vacant).
Uganda—S. A. Granville.
Royal East African Navy—Comdr. E. A. W. Gibbs, R.N.
East African Office in London, Commissioner—Sir Arthur Kirby, K.B.E., C.M.G.

OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER-GENERAL FOR THE UNITED KINGDOM IN SOUTH-EAST ASIA

Commissioner-General—Sir Robert Heatlie Scott, K.C.M.G., C.B.E.
Deputy Commissioner-General—A. M. MacKintosh, C.M.G.

As part of His late Majesty's Government's post-war policy in South-East Asia, a Governor-General was appointed with responsibility for the co-ordination of policy and administration in an area including the Malayan Union, Singapore, Sarawak, North Borneo and the Protected State of Brunei. This appointment was announced in Cmd. 6724 in January, 1946, and Mr. Malcolm MacDonald assumed duty as Governor-General in May, 1946. At first his area of authority included only the Malayan Union, Singapore and Brunei, but on the conclusion of negotiations with the Rajah of Sarawak and the British North Borneo Chartered Company, it was extended to the new Colonies of Sarawak and North Borneo. The Governor-General had co-ordinating, but no direct administrative, functions and power to convene conferences of Governors. In respect of Brunei the Governor-General acted as the channel of communication between the Secretary of State and the Resident. In defence matters, the Governor-General was chairman of the British Defence Co-ordination Committee, Far East, on which sat the Commanders-in-Chief of the Services and the Special Commissioner (see below), and on which the Governor-General represented the interests of the territories in his area of authority and also those of Hong Kong.

In 1946 a Special Commissioner (Lord Killearn) responsible to the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, had been appointed with Headquarters in Singapore, charged with the responsibility for advising His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom on general problems affecting the conduct of foreign affairs in an area which included Burma, Siam, Indo-China and the then Netherlands East Indies, and with the special duty of improving the production and distribution of food supplies in the area.

Towards the end of 1947, His Majesty's Government came to the decision that, without diminishing in any way the scope of the two organizations, it would be possible to place them under one head, and to combine to a certain extent their clerical and administrative staffs. Accordingly, on Lord Killearn's retirement, the supervision of the two organizations was entrusted on 1st May, 1948, to Mr. Malcolm MacDonald with the title of "Commissioner-General for the United Kingdom in South-East Asia". On the same date the Commissioner-General's direct administrative responsibilities in respect of Brunei lapsed when the Governor of Sarawak was appointed High Commissioner for Brunei; his other responsibilities in respect of Brunei remain. Mr. MacDonald was succeeded in September, 1955, by Sir Robert Scott.

On the attainment of full independence within the Commonwealth by the Federation of Malaya on 31st August 1957, a High Commissioner for the United Kingdom was appointed in Kuala Lumpur and the Commissioner-General's responsibilities in relation to the Federation became similar to those exercised in relation to the other independent countries in the area.

The Commissioner-General's organization, with its headquarters in Singapore, was reorganized during 1956 as a United Kingdom Office, staffed by United Kingdom-based officers and paid for by United Kingdom funds. The Commissioner-General is now responsible to the Prime Minister in the carrying out of the duties previously performed by the Special Commissioner, and not, as before the appointment of Sir Robert Scott, to the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs.

WEST AFRICAN INTER-TERRITORIAL COUNCIL

The Council consists of two Ministers each from Ghana, Nigeria, Sierra Leone and the Gambia. It is served by the West African Interterritorial Secretariat, with headquarters at Accra. Its main function is the co-ordination of research.

Also administered by the Secretariat is the West African Standing Advisory Committee for Agriculture Research. (Secretary—A. Pickles.)
Chief Secretary—L. G. Heptinstall (Acting).
WEST AFRICAN REGIONAL ORGANIZATIONS

The West African Cocoa Research Institute is responsible for research into diseases and pests which affect cacao, the breeding of improved types of cacao, the evolution of better methods of growing cacao and preparing beans for market. The Institute's main station and headquarters are at Tafo, Ghana, and there are sub-stations in Ghana and Nigeria.

Director—J. Lamb, O.B.E.

The West African Council for Medical Research was established in 1954 following a reorganization of medical research in West Africa. The Council's headquarters are at Yaba in Nigeria. The Council has absorbed the former West African Virus Research Institute and has assumed responsibility for the Helminthiasis Research Unit at Kumba in the Southern Cameroons. In addition to the expansion and development of the work of these units, a Tuberculosis Research Unit has been established at Kumasi in Ghana.

Secretary—F. N. Macnamara.

The West African Institute for Oil Palm Research is situated near Benin in Nigeria. There are sub-stations in Calabar Province, Nigeria, and at Njala, Sierra Leone. The research programme includes the determination of the most efficient means of cultivating oil palms, selection and breeding for improved seed and the study of improved methods of processing oil palm fruit for the production of palm oil and palm kernels.

Director—C. W. S. Hartley.

The West African Institute for Trypanosomiasis Research which was formally opened in 1951, undertakes research into all aspects of human and animal trypanosomiasis. The Institute is situated in Northern Nigeria, with headquarters at Kaduna and a large sub-station at Vom.

Director—T. A. M. Nash, O.B.E.

The West African Maize Research Unit, which was established in 1952 at Ibadan, Western Region of Nigeria, and which is administered by the Federal Government of Nigeria, is engaged in research into the pests and disease problems in maize.

Officer-in-Charge—R. H. Cammack (Acting).

The West African Rice Research Station, which was established at Rokupr, in 1949, is administered by the Government of Sierra Leone. The research programme includes the study of the fertility of rice nurseries, the multiplication of pure seed and the introduction and trial of rices from other countries.

Officer-in-Charge—H. D. Jordan.

The West African Timber-Borer Research Unit was established in 1953. It is located at Kumasi in Ghana. The unit concentrates on the problems of ambrosia beetles (pin hole borers) in logs and lumber and on the control of damage by other insects to timber trees and sawmill stock.

Officer-in-Charge—T. Jones (Acting).

The West African Building Research Institute was established in 1952 to undertake research into problems associated with the design and erection of modern and traditional buildings in this area. A centre has been set up at Accra, Ghana, and a centre is planned for Zaria, Northern Nigeria.

Director—I. Small.

[The West African Examinations Council is no longer a responsibility of W.A.I.T.S.]

INTERNATIONAL CO-OPERATION

THE UNITED NATIONS

Her Majesty's Government is constitutionally responsible for the conduct of the international relations of Colonial territories and accordingly the interests of the Colonies are represented by the United Kingdom at the United Nations. Her Majesty's Government consults Colonial Governments before acceding to international agreements which affect them.

In some of the Specialized Agencies, namely the International Telecommunications Union, the World Health Organization, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization and the Food and Agriculture Organization, Colonial Governments can be separately represented as associate members. In the Universal Postal Union they have separate representation through a Colonial Ensemble. In the International Telecommunications Union certain Colonies which are not associate members are also separately represented through a Colonial Ensemble. Some Colonies, or groups of Colonies, are separate members of the World Meteorological Organization.

The Singapore and British Borneo group (consisting of Singapore, North Borneo, Sarawak and Brunei) and Hong Kong are associate members of the Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East.

Apart from the participation of Colonies directly in the work of those of the Specialized Agencies which permit it, Her Majesty's Government also, when appropriate, includes Colonial Representatives in United Kingdom delegations.

In their administration of the Trust Territories of the British Cameroons and Tanganyika, Her Majesty's Government collaborates with the General Assembly of the United Nations and the Trusteeship Council in accordance with the United Nations Charter and the respective Trusteeship Agreements. The United Kingdom Permanent Representative on the Trusteeship Council and in the Fourth Committee of the General Assembly is Sir Andrew Cohen, K.C.M.G., K.C.V.O., O.B.E., formerly Governor of Uganda. He is assisted by the First Secretary (Colonial Affairs) to the United Kingdom delegation to the United Nations, Mr. G. K. Caston.

AFRICA

The Commission for Technical Co-operation in Africa South of the Sahara (C.C.T.A.) has been in existence since 1950. The Agreement formally establishing the Commission was signed in 1954 by the Governments of Belgium, France, Portugal, the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland, the Union of South Africa and the United Kingdom. There is provision in the Agreement
for the admission of other countries within the geographical scope of the Commission, and Ghana and Liberia were so admitted to membership in 1957.

C.C.T.A. organizes in Africa regular technical conferences, which are attended by representatives of the territories of the Member Governments, and to which observers from non-member Governments in the region and from other international organizations may be invited. It supervises the activities of a number of technical bureaux and the execution of special research projects. It has also created a number of advisory committees and panels of correspondents. Amongst the subjects dealt with are agriculture, forestry, animal diseases, social services, social sciences, medicine, labour, housing and statistics.

The Commission is advised in scientific matters by the Scientific Council for Africa (C.S.A.) which itself organizes frequent meetings of specialists.

C.C.T.A. co-operates with other international organizations including the Specialized Agencies of the United Nations.

The headquarters of the Commission are in London; there is also an office of the Joint Secretariat of C.C.T.A./C.S.A. at Bukavu in the Belgian Congo.

CARIBBEAN

The Caribbean Commission was set up in 1946, and has its headquarters in Trinidad. It is a joint body representative of the Governments of France, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, and the United States, for the purpose of encouraging and strengthening social and economic co-operation between the Caribbean territories for which those Governments have responsibilities, and co-ordinating research in these fields. (See Cmd. 8575, paragraphs 336-344). The Comptroller for Development and Welfare in the West Indies is United Kingdom co-Chairman. Alternative arrangements will be made for filling this post when the post of Comptroller is abolished on 31st March, 1958.

SOUTH PACIFIC

A regional Commission for the South Pacific was established in 1947 by agreement between the Governments of Australia, France, the Netherlands, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and the United States of America, and it meets each year. This Commission is a consultative and advisory body to the participating Governments in matters affecting the economic and social development of non-self-governing territories within its scope and the well-being and advancement of their peoples. The Commission's work was reviewed at an inter-Governmental conference at Canberra in 1957 which made recommendations as to the directions in which its activities should be developed.

SOUTH-EAST ASIA

Singapore, North Borneo and Sarawak participated in the preparation of the Colombo Plan for Co-operative Economic Development in South and South-East Asia, and are eligible for assistance under the technical co-operation scheme. The scheme is designed to provide participating countries with technical assistance in the form of training facilities and the services of experts.

COLONIAL FORCES

The following local forces are maintained in the Colonial territories. Their chief rôle is local defence and the preservation of internal security, but in exceptional circumstances some of the regular forces serve outside their geographical regions.

Full-time Forces

The Royal West African Frontier Force, raised from Nigeria, Sierra Leone and the Gambia.
The King's African Rifles, raised from Kenya, Tanganyika, Uganda and Nyasaland.*
The Northern Rhodesia Regiment.*
The Somaliland Scouts.
The Jamaica Regiment.
The Aden Protectorate Levies.
The Fiji Military Forces (regular and territorial).
The Singapore Military Forces.
The Royal Malayan Navy (Singapore).
The Royal East African Navy.
The Nigerian Navy.

Part-time Forces

The Royal Hong Kong Defence Force, comprising:
Hong Kong R.N.V.R.
Hong Kong Regiment.

* Nyasaland units of K.A.R. and the N.R.R. are now maintained under the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland (q.v.).

Hong Kong Auxiliary Air Force.
Home Guard.
Hong Kong Women's Naval Volunteer Reserve.
Hong Kong Women's Auxiliary Army Corps.
Hong Kong Women's Auxiliary Air Force.
The Gibraltar Defence Force.
The British Honduras Volunteer Guard.
The British Guiana Volunteer Force.
The Barbados Regiment.
The Bermuda Rifles.
The Bermuda Militia Artillery.
The Antigua Defence Force.
The St. Kitts Defence Force.
The Montserrat Defence Force.
The Kenya Regiment.
The Falkland Islands Defence Force.
The Malayan Auxiliary Air Force (Singapore section)
The Malayan R.N.V.R. (Singapore division).
The Mauritius Naval Volunteer Force.
The King's Own Malta Regiment.
The Sierra Leone Naval Volunteer Force.

Some of these Forces are administered by the Colonial Governments, others by the United Kingdom Service Departments concerned. In addition the Service Departments maintain certain units in Colonial territories. These include the Royal Malta Artillery, "locally enlisted personnel" wherever British forces are stationed, and R.A.F. (Malta).