SWAZILAND.

Situation and Area.

Swaziland is bounded on the North, West, and South by the Transvaal, and on the East by Portuguese territory and Tongaland, now part of the Natal Province.

Its area is 6,678 square miles.

Description and Climate.

The territory is divided geographically into three longitudinal regions.

The mountainous region on the West approximates an altitude of over 4,000 feet.
What is known as the Middle Veld is some 2,000 feet lower, while the Low Veld, bounded on the East by the Lebombo Mountains, attains an average altitude of not more than 1,000 feet. The first two regions are remarkably well watered. Innumerable small streams unite with the large rivers which traverse the country from West to East; except for these the Low Veld is not very well watered, though bore holes put down recently by private enterprise have revealed the existence of underground supplies of water at several places.

Swaziland is on the whole, very healthy, but in common with other parts of similar country in South Africa, malaria is prevalent in the Low Veld during some of the summer months.

Mbabane, the headquarters of the Administration, is situated on the hills at an altitude of 4,000 feet, and Bremersdorp, the old capital, is on the Middle Veld. Other European centres are the Government Stations at Hlatikulu, Mankaiana, Stegi and Pigg’s Peak.

Native History.

The Swazis are an allied race to the Zulus and speak the same language, with minor modifications. According to themselves the tribe lived originally in Southern Tongaland, from whence they migrated about 300 years ago to the Tshilwenti country, that is the country to the West of the Uboni Range, between the Pongolo and the Great Usutu Rivers. Here they remained until 1815 when being attacked by Zwide, Chief of the Ndwande, the major portion of the tribe under their chief Sobhuza, better known as Somhlolo, fled north and settled near the present site of Bremersdorp. The petty tribes or clans of Baroswi, Bavenda or Bapodi origin then in occupation of Swaziland North of the Great Usutu, were conquered and absorbed. Under Sobhuza and his successor Mswazi, they occupied territory up to Barberton in the North and extending towards Carolina and Ermelo on the West, while the tribes occupying what is now the Lydenburg District also paid tribute to the Swazi King.

The Swazis are known to themselves and other native tribes as the Ama-Ngwanane, that is, the people of Ngwane, one of their early Chiefs, and the country as Kwa-Ngwanane, the land of Ngwane. After their flight to the North they were never seriously disturbed, though they were occasionally raided by Zulu tribes from the South, especially after the death of Dingana, who was killed by a Swazi Impi on the Southern border, after his defeat by the Boers and his brother Mpande. Subsequently through the good offices of Sir Theophilus Shepstone (Somtseu) amicable relations subsisted with Mpande, the Zulu King and his successor Cetywayo. In 1879 the Swazis lent assistance to the British in the war against Sekukuni, but took no part in the Zulu War. Through the possession of secret medicines, used in the propitiation of the spirits of ancestral Chiefs, the Swazi Chiefs hold a pre-eminent position as rain makers. The native Government consisted of the King and his Council, made up of the Malangeni, the Chiefs of royal blood, and the Chief indunas of the tribe. The assistance of the witchdoctors was called in whenever necessary, to communicate with the spirits of departed Chiefs and to clean the country of sorcerers and other doers of evil. A military system of trained regiments on the lines formulated by Dingiswayo and Tahaka was adopted, mainly no doubt as a defence against the Zulus.

In the year 1846 Mswazi ceded whatever rights he had in the Lydenburg District to the Lydenburg Republic. Subsequently he, and later, Mbandeni, entered into agreements purporting to cede the whole of the territory to that Republic and to its successor the late South African Republic. These later cessions were in fact nullified by the Conventions of 1881 and 1884 entered into between Great Britain and the Republic though the boundaries of the Transvaal laid down in the 1881 Convention constituted a considerable encroachment on what was claimed to be Swazi Territory.

Sobhuza the son of Bhunu, is now heir apparent. He will probably be installed shortly as Paramount Chief; during his minority his grandmother Labotsibeni has acted as Queen Regent of the nation. She is officially styled the Chief Regent and by her own people is given the title of “Ndllovukazi” or the Cow Elephant. She is assisted by Loumvauzi her son, who was nominated by the Council to act as Regent during the minority of the heir, and by other leading chiefs who have in the past acted in a similar capacity, during the minority of preceding chiefs.

European Settlement.

During the eighties the King “Mbandini” in return for money and other payments granted concessions for various periods. Every conceivable right was granted away, not only for land, minerals, grazing, and timber, but also for all imaginable purposes, including exemption from taxes, for railways, telegraphs, mining patents, collection of the King’s revenue, trading, etc., All unallotted land and minerals also formed the subject of concessions.

In 1888 a charter of self-government was granted to the whites in the country. Later, in 1890, under a Convention between the British Government and the South African Republic, a provisional Government was, with the consent of the Swazis, set up, consisting of a Government Committee composed of representatives of those two Powers, and a representative of the Swazis, a Government Secretary, Attorney General and other officials and of a Chief Court. This Court adjudicated on the initial validity of all concessions granted by the King, and, with a few exceptions, confirmed the grants in respect of such initial validity.

In accordance with pledges given to the Government of the South African Republic the provisional Administration came to an end three years later, when the British Government signed a fresh Convention, which permitted the South African Republic to acquire from the Regent and her Council an Organic Proclamation conferring on the South African Republic rights of jurisdiction, legislation and administration without incorporation in the South African Republic. The Swazis refused to sign the Organic Proclamation which had been drafted for them, and accordingly its provisions, with some of those in the 1893 Convention, were embodied in the final Convention of 1894, under which the South African Republic exercised powers of protection, legislation, jurisdiction and administration in Swaziland, subject to the limitations of the Convention.

On the conquest of the Transvaal, all the rights and powers of the late South African Republic passed to His Majesty, but since the other party to the Convention of 1894 had disappeared without the limitations therein, an Order in Council under the Foreign Jurisdiction
Act was issued in June, 1903, providing that the Governor of the Transvaal should administer Swaziland, and conferring on him the right to legislate by Proclamation.

On the cessation of hostilities a British Special Commissioner, with a small force of South African Constabulary, was sent into the country, and a provisional Administration was established.

In accordance with the powers granted to him, the Governor issued a Proclamation in 1904 providing for administration and for dealing with the concessions question. The Laws of the Transvaal in force at the date of the Proclamation were applied to Swaziland, mutatis mutandis. Courts were established with the rights of appeal to the Supreme Court of the Transvaal, and an appeal was permitted from the decisions of the chiefs in civil matter to the Court of the Resident Magistrate. The chiefs were otherwise confirmed in their civil jurisdiction over natives, subject to the exclusion of usages incompatible with the due exercise of His Majesty's power and jurisdiction, or clearly injurious to the welfare of the natives.

The Commission constituted under the Proclamation of 1904 to deal with the concessions examined the concessions granting the exclusive rights, except exclusive rights to land and minerals, with a view to their expropriation at their value prior to the commencement of hostilities. The Commission reported in 1906, and the concessions, the subject of its report, were, with few exceptions, expropriated. The Commission subsequently dealt with the question of boundaries of land, mineral and grazing concessions. The general survey of these concessions, necessary to determine the conflicting rights, was also completed. Under the concessions Partition Proclamation issued in 1907 land and grazing concessions were subjected to a deduction of one-third of their area for the sole and exclusive use and occupation of the natives of Swaziland and the remaining two-thirds were freed from such occupation subject to the provision that for five years from July 1st, 1909, no natives actually resident on such land could be compelled to move therefrom but after that period they could only continue to occupy such land on terms to be agreed upon between themselves and the concessionaires. These Agreements are subject to confirmation by the Resident Commissioner. Proclamation No. 24 of 1913 provided simple and effective machinery for the removal of natives from concessions after the period of five years had elapsed. This took place in 1914 and there was no large movement of natives from concessions. Those who desired to move did so voluntarily and the remainder made terms with the concessionaires and remained on the farms. In no instance has it been necessary forcibly to eject any native family from a concession.

Of the total area of Swaziland, 4,274,014 acres, 1,635,774 acres have been set aside for the exclusive use of the Swazis and they have, in addition, acquired by purchase, 77,076 acres.

By an Order in Council, dated 1st December, 1906, the control of Swaziland was transferred from the Governor of the Transvaal to the High Commissioner for South Africa. Under the Order in Council the High Commissioner issued a Proclamation in March, 1907, providing for the appointment of a Resident Commissioner, a Government Secretary, Assistant Commissioners and the establishment of a Police Force. The Laws of the Transvaal were re-enacted, mutatis mutandis, and, except where modified by Statute, the Roman-Dutch Common Law was put in force by the Proclamation. A special Court, having the full jurisdiction of a Superior Court, was established together with Courts of Assistant Commissioners with a limited jurisdiction.

The paramount chief and other chiefs were confirmed in their Civil Jurisdiction over natives subject to appeal to the Resident Commissioner. Provision was made for the Swaziland Deeds Office and Surveyor-General's Office to remain at Pretoria under control of the officers responsible prior to the date of the Proclamation.

Population.

The population of Swaziland, according to the census of 1921, was 2,203 whites, 463 coloured, 111,106 Natives—Bantu.

Religion and Education.

The Anglican Church, the Roman Catholic Church, The South Africa General Mission, the Scandinavian Alliance Mission, the African Methodist Episcopal Mission, the Wesleyan Methodist Mission, the Independent Methodist Mission, the Pentecostal Church of the Nazarene, and the American International Holiness Union have representatives in the country.

The Administration has established a native school at Zombode, the kraal of the Regent, at which, until recently, the young paramount chief was educated. The Government also maintains nine schools for European children at various centres, and makes annual grants to the various native missions which undertake native education.

Industries, Agriculture & Trade.

Mining in Swaziland is carried out under the authority of Concessions granted by the late King Mbandeni. Tin is found in payable quantities in the vicinity of Mbabane. Gold Mining was carried on for some years at the Pigg's Peak and other mines, but, owing to the increased cost of this class of mining all work has ceased for the present. The Crown owns a few mineral areas, and legal provision has been made for the exploitation of these by the public in the event of payable minerals being discovered.

Output of Tin.

| Year | Tons | Valued at |
|------|------|-----------|
| 1919-20 | 449 | £66,676 |
| 1920-21 | 407 | £45,258 |

Gold.

| Year | Ounces | Valued at |
|------|--------|-----------|
| 1920-21 | 127 | £630 |

There are approximately 193,000 head of horned stock, and 210,000 native sheep and goats in the territory. Cattle ranching on a large scale has been in operation for some years. The Natalia Ranch has about 15,000 head of cattle and approximately 100 imported pure bred and 170 grade bulls and has under cultivation about 600 acres of mealies. Ranches Limited have about 6,000 head of cattle, 50 imported pure bred and 50 grade bulls.

The Coal Mines Ranch has about 6,000 head of cattle. Several other farmers have herds of cattle ranging from 1,000 to 3,000 head. The young stock from the imported bulls on the Ranches show a very marked improvement on the local cattle.

The stock is fat all the year round and fat oxen can be put on the market in the winter and spring without any artificial feeding.
Dipping of all cattle is consistently carried out and diseases of stock are not more virulent here than elsewhere in South Africa. The East Coast fever disease has now almost been eradicated.

Approximately 300,000 sheep (Merinos) are brought in from the Transvaal high veld for winter grazing but this class of sheep has not so far been farmed in the Territory otherwise.

From an agricultural point of view farming is assuming some importance owing mainly to the grant on easy terms of allotments of Crown Land to European settlers.

Maize is the staple product but cotton is likely to be grown extensively in the future in suitable localities. Tobacco is also a paying crop and many portions of the Territory have been favourably reported on for citrus and sub-tropical fruits. At present, in the absence of a railway, no sufficient market exists for products of this nature. The Swazis grow the usual native crops but in insufficient quantity to feed themselves. Efforts are however being made to improve their methods.

No statistics of the imports into and the exports from Swaziland are now kept. By an agreement with the Government of the Union of South Africa, Swaziland is dealt with, for Customs purposes, as a part of the Union. Payments due to Swaziland are assessed on the proportions which the average of the collections for the three years ended March 31st, 1910, bear to the total customs collections of the Union in each year. The imports consist principally of maize, flour, groceries, wearing apparel, hardware, spirits, tobacco, and kaffir truck; while the principal export in Cassiterite tin.

There are branches of the National Bank of South Africa, Limited, at Mbabane and Hlatikulu, as also a Post Office Savings Bank at Mbabane. The currency is British.

Stores exist where necessary to serve the needs of the population, but the volume of trade is small.

The War.

The Swazis sent a small number of men to France with the Labour Battalion. They also collected and transmitted to the King as a War gift the sum of £3,000 for which two Aeroplanes, suitably inscribed were purchased by direction of His Majesty. Their attitude during the war has been loyal.

Amongst the Europeans practically every eligible man of British birth able to get away has done service. Casualties fortunately were few in proportion to the number at the front. War Funds were also well supported, and in addition a troop for service in South West Africa was horsed by public subscription.

Revenue and Expenditure.

The revenue and expenditure for the two years ended March 31st, 1921, was:

| Year    | Revenue   | Expenditure |
|---------|-----------|-------------|
| 1919-20 | £91,801   | £87,073     |
| 1920-21 | £88,372   | £111,139    |

The public debt on March 31st, 1920, was £2,500l. for the repayment of which provision has been made through the medium of a sinking fund.

Swaziland Administration Establishment.

Resident Commissioner, De S. M. G. Honey, O.M.G., 1,200l., and 380l. travelling and subsistence allowance.

Deputy Resident Commissioner and Government Secretary, B. Nicholson, D.S.O., M.C., 900l., personal allowance, 100l.

Chief Clerk, L. J. Puttick, 520l.

Record Clerk, C. G. Leary, M.C., 310l.

Clerk attached to the High Commissioner's Office, J. R. Armstrong, 380l.

Financial Secretary, L. G. Luscombe, 610l.

Assistant Accountant (acting), R. Blanshard, 365l.

Clerk, W. H. Russell, 280l.

Assistant Commissioner, Mbabane District, B. H. Warner, B.A., 710l. and 150l. horse and travelling allowance.

Clerks, H. W. Boast, 340l., horse and travelling allowance 50l.; A. H. B. Hoare, 220l., horse and travelling allowance 50l.

Gaoler, H. O'Farrell, 320l.

Resident Justice of the Peace, Bremerdorp, S. B. Williams, 380l., and 100l. horse and travelling allowance.

Assistant Commissioner, Mankaiana District, D. H. Harvey, 590l., and 150l. horse and travelling allowance.

Clerk, W. A. Dawson, 220l. and 50l. horse and travelling allowance.

Assistant Commissioner, Hlatikulu District, A. G. Marwick, 800l., and 150l. travelling and subsistence allowance, and 100l. personal allowance.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner and Clerk, H. B. A. McCarter, 530l., horse and travelling allowance 100l.

Clerk, A. E. Pasea, 260l., horse and travelling allowance 50l.

Clerk, A. W. Walters, 160l., horse and travelling allowance, 50l.

Assistant Commissioner, Peak District (vacant).

Clerk, E. Lewell, M.C., 250l., horse and travelling allowance 50l.

Assistant Commissioner, Ulombo District (acting) T. A. F. Steward, 570l., and 150l. horse and travelling allowance, 100l. climatic allowance.

Clerk, H. P. M. Fitzpatrick, 290l., horse and travelling allowance 50l.; climatic allowance 50l.

Auditor, A. Warren.

Judicial.

Special Court of Swaziland: President, G. T. Morice, K.C.; Members, The Resident Commissioner, The Deputy Resident Commissioner, and five District Assistant Commissioners.

Master, Registrar and Sheriff, W. W. Usher, 365l., also Deputy Assistant Commissioner, Mbabane District.

Crown Prosecutor, C. T. Blakeway (Advocate).

Medical Department.

Principal Medical Officer, R. Jamison, F.R.C.S., 660l., and 225l. horse and travelling allowance.

Assistant Medical Officer, Hlatikulu, Capt. G. O'N. Waddington, 400l. and 150l. horse and travelling allowance.

Hospital Assistant, Mbabane, J. Anderson, 210l.

Hospital Assistant, Waukaiana, H. R. Barnard, 320l.

Veterinary Department.

Principal Veterinary Officer, W. A. Elder, F.R.C.V.S., 360l., and 150l. horse and travelling allowance; also draws a special horse allowance of 15l. during eradication of East Coast Fever.

Six Stock Inspectors, 3 at 320l., 2 at 300l., 1 at 240l.
79
the
; as

two

911 ,
the
tion
nits
ncil
lern

uth
the
now

East

blin,
also

was

any,
ition

med ,
the
Cape

ation
erce,
other
3 was

year,

gula,
rgan
vutsie
i the
hona

being
gold
point
miles
been
were
ement

ferous

I into
atives
near

Iriven
access
s were

.d,

to

nana

The
unteers
om the
oh had
na and
om the
fought
which
The
| by a

ambesi and by that river

Portugue

,
to the
se
t loss .
boundary. Thesaid limits include an area of ten greapied,
and
occu
* The information in this notice is kindly supplied
by the British South Africa Company .

ed with

Bulawayo was
of the king .

This force

Jed by the

sudden rising

and Major


I and the fever.
A bro-
gram-
tari-
F assu-
gran-
Ian-
N to b-
loca-
mar-
ably-
At suff-
The insu-
are-
N exp-
agri-
Sou-
Cus-
mer-
proj-
for bea-
in e-
mai-
spir-
exp-
T Sou-
kub-
Mbr-
S of tl-

T Fra-
coll-
gift-
suit-
His-
been-
A elig-
don-
in p-
Fun-
troo-
by l-

T end

T for-
ma-

Swaziland Administration E.

Resident Commissioner, De S. C.M.G., 1,200l., and 380l. travel subsistence allowance.
SOUTH AFRICA—HIGH COMMISSION: RHODESIA.

Educational Department.

Teachers, Mrs. I. I. Fanner, 190l.; Miss D. Lewis, 100l.; Miss A. Maritz, 180l.; J. Greenewald, 350l.; Mrs. van Aswegan, 200l.; Mrs. S. Maritz, 244l.; J. C. Breytenbach, 210l.; Miss H. S. A. du Plessis, 130l.; P. Erasmus, 200l.; Miss J. Pieterse, 120l.; Miss M. Whitelaw, 150l.; Miss J. Grobler, 130l.; Rev. J. J. Xaba, 180l.; Native Teachers, 4 at 120l., 1 at 100l., 1 at 72l., 1 at 60l.

Matron, Zomboide School, Mrs. E. Xaba, 60l.

Inspector of Education, F. H. Dutton.

Police.

Assistant Commissioner Commanding Police, Major C. H. Gilson, D.S.O., 800l., and 150l., horse and travelling allowance, and 100l. personal allowance.

Capt. G. D. Roberts, 445l., and 100l. horse and travelling allowance.

Sub-Inspector, T. W. Vine, D.C.M., 395l., and 100l. horse and travelling allowance.

Superintendent, M. Hinds, 312l. 10s.

4 European Sergeants, each 240l. by 10l. to 280l.

7 European Corporals, each 200l. by 10l. to 230l.

9 European Troopers, 160l. by 10l. to 180l. each.

1 Native Officer, 100l.

171 Native N.C.O.'s and Constables, 36l. to 72l.

All European Officials draw war allowances. Native employees are paid at special rates.

RHODESIA.*

Rhodesia (so called after the late Right Hon. Cecil J. Rhodes) is the name of the country under the administration of the British South Africa Company, whose principal field of operations was defined in its Charter of Incorporation as "the region of South Africa lying immediately to the north of British Bechuanaland, and to the north and west of the South African Republic, and to the west of the Portuguese Dominions." Of these extensive territories the Company is responsible for the administration of the following portions:

1. Southern Rhodesia, or the provinces of Mashonaland and Matabeleland (area 149,000 square miles).

2. Northern Rhodesia, or the whole of the British sphere lying between the Portuguese Settlements, Tanganyika Territory, and the Belgian Congo, with the exception of the strip of territory forming the Nyasaland Protectorate. The area is estimated at about 291,000 square miles.

I.—SOUTHERN RHODESIA.

The limits of Southern Rhodesia, as defined by the Southern Rhodesia Order in Council, dated 20th October, 1898, are the parts of South Africa bounded by the Portuguese Possessions, by the Transvaal Colony to a point opposite the mouth of the River Shashi, by the River Shashi to its junction with the Tati and Ramaquaban rivers, thence by the Ramaquaban river to its source, thence by the watershed to the Rivers Shashi and Ramaquaban until such watershed strikes the Hunter's Road (called the Pandamatenka Road), thence by that road to the River Zambesi, and by that river to the Portuguese boundary. The said limits include an area of ten miles' radius round Fort Tuli, but exclude the area of the district known as the Tati district as defined by the Charter.

II.—NORTHERN RHODESIA.

This territory was previously divided into two provinces:

(a.) Barotziland-North-Western Rhodesia.

(b.) North-Eastern Rhodesia.

By the order in Council, dated 4th May, 1911, these two provinces were amalgamated under the title of Northern Rhodesia. The amalgamation took effect from 17th August, 1911. The limits of the territory as defined by the order in Council are "the parts of Africa bounded by Southern Rhodesia, German South-West Africa (now South-West Africa), Portuguese West Africa, the Congo Free State, German East Africa (now Tanganyika), Nyasaland and Portuguese East Africa."

In March, 1921, Sir Drummond Chaplin, Administrator of Southern Rhodesia, became also Administrator of Northern Rhodesia.

History.

On the 29th October, 1889, a Royal Charter was granted to the British South Africa Company, conferring upon it large powers of administration to carry out the objects for which it was formed, the principal being to extend northwards the railway and telegraph systems of the Cape Colony and Bechuanaland, to encourage emigration and colonisation, to promote trade and commerce, and to develop and work mineral and other concessions.

Early in 1890 a police force of Europeans was raised and equipped, and in June of that year, after obtaining permission from King Lobengula, a pioneer expedition on a large scale was organised to cut a road from a point on the Macoltsie River, a tributary of the Limpopo, through the south-eastern part of Matabeleland into Mashonaland, the objective point of the expedition being Mount Hampden, near which large belts of gold-bearing quartz were known to exist. This point was duly reached, and Fort Salisbury, 12 miles South-east of Mount Hampden, having been founded (12th September, 1890) the pioneers were disbanded, and, in accordance with the agreement made with them, were allowed to peg off auriferous claims and farms.

In July, 1893, the Matabele made a raid into Mashonaland, and killed a number of natives living under the Company's protection, near Victoria, when they were attacked and driven back by the Company's police. After an unsuccessful attempt to arrange matters, preparations were made for the invasion of Matabeleland, to anticipate an expected attack on the Bechuanaland Protectorate and Mashonaland. The Company's police and a small force of volunteers and native allies advanced on Bulawayo from the east, while the Bechuanaland Police, which had been largely reinforced, advanced with Khams and some 2,000 of his men by way of Tati from the south. Two successful engagements were fought by the Company's forces near Bulawayo, in which the Matabele suffered very severely. The Bechuanaland police were also attacked by a strong force of Matabele, which they repulsed with great loss. Lobengula fled, and Bulawayo was occupied, and a force sent in pursuit of the king.

This force was unfortunately divided by the sudden rising of the River Shangani, and Major

* The information in this notice is kindly supplied by the British South Africa Company.
Wilson and a small party of men were, after a heroic resistance, killed to a man. Arrangements for the future administration of the country were completed by the High Commissioner and Mr. Rhodes on behalf of the Company. Lobengula, who was said to be endeavouring to escape across the Zambezi, is reported to have died from small-pox or fever.

In 1896, owing to a variety of causes, the Matabele broke out in rebellion, and shortly after the Mashonas followed suit. After a prolonged struggle the rebellion was subdued in September, 1897.

From 1897 to 1899 the development of the country advanced rapidly, but the outbreak of the war with the Republics, in October, 1899, practically put a stop to progressive work of every kind and the investment of Mafeking and the occupation by the Boers of a section of the railway in Bechuanaland cut the Territory completely off from communication with the South. During the operations that followed, a conspicuous part was played by the British South African Police and by Volunteers from the civilian population of Rhodesia, many of whom continued, after the relief of Mafeking, to serve until peace was declared in other parts of the theatre of War. It was estimated that the number of men contributed by Rhodesia, was approximately 1,500, being at least 12½ per cent. of the European population. Their good work earned frequent mentions in despatches and secured the special approbation of the Commander-in-Chief.

The effects of the European War upon Rhodesian interests were at first mainly indirect, notwithstanding that the territory is bounded for short distances by what was "German" East Africa and "German" South West Africa respectively. On the Eastern frontier, a force of Rhodesian Police repelled successfully an invasion from "German" East Africa of Northern Rhodesia. On the Western frontier, other Rhodesian Police, on the instructions of the High Commissioner, took possession of German territory in the neighbourhood of the Zambezi, at the eastern extremity of the Caprivi Strip, and occupied Shuckmansburg. On the 17th April, 1915, a detachment of Northern Rhodesia Rifles and Northern Rhodesia Police, under the late Major Boyd Cuningham, captured a stockaded position 35 miles east of Fife on the north-eastern frontier of Northern Rhodesia. Later, on the same Border, the Northern Rhodesia Police under Colonel F. A. Hodson, assisted by a company of the Northern Rhodesia Rifles under Major Boyd Cuningham, held their own for many months with the assistance of a battalion of Belgian native troops under European officers. On 28th June, the enemy attacked the Rhodesian entrenched camp at Saisi (28 miles east of Abercorn) which was defended by a small mixed force of British and Belgians under Major O'Sullivan, Northern Rhodesia Police. They were driven off with considerable loss. A second attack was made on the 25th July, by a force estimated at 2,000 (including 400 Europeans and 200 Arabs), and two guns. This force was also beaten off with heavy loss, after an eight days' siege, on 3rd August. The whole of the forces on the Northern frontier, including those based upon Nyasaland, were placed subsequently under the command of Brig.-General (now Major-General Sir Edward) Northey, A.D.C.

The efforts of the Company in Northern Rhodesia were largely devoted to the maintenance of supplies to the columns under General Northey, and were successful, particularly in the opening up of a water-route for the conveyance of stores by canoe from Kabunda, via Lake Bangweulu to a point on the Lukulu River near Kasama, whence the stores were conveyed overland to the forces.

On the 2nd May, 1916, General Northey ordered a general advance into "German" East Africa of the troops under his command, and by July all enemy territory adjacent to the Northern Rhodesia border had been cleared of the enemy.

Towards the end of October, 1918, the fugitive German force, under Colonel Von Lettow-Vorbeck, doubled southwards, and on the 1st November made an unsuccessful attack on the frontier station, Fife. From there they proceeded southwest to Kasama, the advanced base of supplies for the forces operating on the border. The bulk of the stores had, however, been evacuated on the first news of the enemy's advance. After burning most of the buildings and their remaining contents, Von Lettow marched along the Kasama-Kashitu motor-road, and early on the 13th November, his advanced parties opened fire on the Company's rubber factory on the Chambesi River. At this juncture the news of the Armistice was received by the Company's District Commissioner and communicated to Von Lettow, who accepted the position and suspended hostilities. The enemy's whole force, consisting of 135 Europeans, 1,300 native troops, and about 3,000 porters and followers, subsequently proceeded to Abercorn, where their surrender was formally accepted a few days later.

As regards the war generally, the number of individual Rhodesians (men and women) known to have undertaken duties in connection with it was 7,009. Of these, 6,859 served with H.M. Forces during the war. 791 were killed in action or died of wounds or disease. Commissions were granted in 1,940 cases, and 987 gained honours and distinctions. The proportion of those who served to the total population was remarkably high. In addition, between 40,000 and 50,000 natives served as carriers and on other duty, such as Native Police. Several were awarded Honours, and many gave their lives in devoted service.

The attitude of the natives throughout the war was most satisfactory.

**Constitution.**

In 1888 that portion of Rhodesia now known as Southern Rhodesia was declared to be within the British sphere of influence, and on the 29th October, 1889, a Royal Charter was granted to the British South Africa Company, conferring upon it large powers of administration to carry out the objects for which it was formed.

At an Extraordinary General Meeting of the shareholders of the British South Africa Company, held on the 14th of December, 1899, a resolution was passed agreeing to accept the amendments proposed by Her Majesty's Government to be made in the original Charter of the Company by a Supplemental Charter, and a further resolution was passed approving certain alterations in the original Deed of Settlement of the Company. These resolutions were confirmed at a further Extraordinary General Meeting, held on the 10th of January, 1900.

The Constitution of Southern Rhodesia, originally laid down by the Charter, was subsequently amended by the Orders in Council of the 9th May, 1891; 30th July, 1891; and 18th July, 1894, the latter being known as the "Matabele-
land Order in Council.” This Order was revoked by the Southern Rhodesia Order in Council of 1898, which provides for the Administration of the Territory, Legislation, the Preservation of Peace and Order, the Constitution of Courts of Justice, and Native Administration. This Order has been amended by the Southern Rhodesia Orders in Council of the 16th February, 1903, 10th August, 1909, 4th May, 1911, 11th February, 1913, 10th August, 1914, 16th February, 1915, 2nd March, 1915, 27th June, 1916, and 23rd July, 1916. Under the Order of 1898, as amended, there is a Resident Commissioner appointed by the Secretary of State. To assist the Administrator there is an Executive Council, composed of not less than three members appointed by the Company, with the approval of the Secretary of State. A member of the Executive Council holds office for a period of three years, unless sooner removed by the Company, but is eligible for re-appointment at the end of each term of office. There is also a Legislative Council, consisting of the Administrator (President), six nominees of the Company approved by the Secretary of State, and thirteen members elected by the Registered Voters. The Resident Commissioner sits on both the Executive and Legislative Councils, but without a vote. Ordinances passed by the Legislative Council, when assented to by the High Commissioner, take effect immediately, but within a year may be disallowed by the Secretary of State. The duration of each Legislative Council is three years. The first Legislative Council was elected in 1899. The number of Registered Voters in 1920 was 12,096.

By a Proclamation, dated 10th June, 1891, the laws of the Cape Colony in force on that date were adopted for and are administered in Southern Rhodesia as far as the circumstances of the country will permit, unless amended or repealed by the Legislative Council. The laws of the Cape Colony passed subsequent to the 10th June, 1891, do not apply to Rhodesia.

For the administration of justice there is a High Court with civil and criminal jurisdiction, the judges being appointed by the Secretary of State, on the nomination of the Company. In the districts there are Magistrates’ Courts. Appeals from the High Court lie to the Supreme Court of the Cape of Good Hope, and thence to the Privy Council.

The administrative system of Northern Rhodesia is prescribed by the Northern Rhodesia Order in Council of 4th May, 1911, amended by Northern Rhodesia Orders in Council of 1914 (2), 1915, and 1916.

Clause 33 of the Company’s Charter, which bears date the 29th day of October, 1889, reserves to the Crown the power at the end of twenty-five years from the date of the Charter, and at the end of every succeeding period of ten years, to add to or repeal any of the provisions of the Charter or to enact other provisions in substitution for or in addition to any of its existing provisions. It is further provided that this power shall only be exercised in relation to so much of the Charter as relates to administrative and public matters, and failing the exercise of this power the Charter is automatically extended for another ten years.

At the expiration of the first period of twenty-five years, viz., in October, 1914, His Majesty’s Government, after ascertaining the views of the Company and of the Legislative Council of Southern Rhodesia, decided to advise the issue of a Supplemental Charter containing a proviso that if during the ensuing ten years the Legislative Council should, by an absolute majority, pass a resolution praying the Crown to establish a responsible government, and should support it by evidence showing that the condition of the Territory, financially and in other respects, was such as to justify this course, it should be lawful for the Crown to make such alterations in the Charter as might be necessary for the purpose.

A Supplemental Charter, giving effect to this arrangement, was issued on 13th March, 1915.

In May, 1920, the Legislative Council passed a resolution praying that responsible government should be established forthwith in Southern Rhodesia. In March, 1921, the Secretary of State for the Colonies appointed a committee, of which Earl Buxton was chairman, to consider certain questions relating to Southern and Northern Rhodesia. The first report of the committee, dealing with Southern Rhodesia, recommended that the question whether that territory was or was not prepared to adopt responsible government should be decided at the earliest possible moment, and that a scheme for responsible government should be drawn up in detail and placed before the electors for their acceptance or rejection, by referendum rather than a general election.

In accordance with the recommendations of the report, the Secretary of State invited a deputation of the elected members of the Legislative Council to discuss with him the drafting of a provisional scheme of responsible government for Southern Rhodesia. The deputation came to London, and after confidential discussions returned in December. Before they left South Africa, however, the deputation, at Mr. Churchill’s suggestion, had an interview with General Smuts. The published statements of General Smuts and of the deputation themselves show what took place at the interview, and indicate clearly that General Smuts is desirous that Southern Rhodesia should enter the Union with the willing consent of the people of the territory.

A petition to His Majesty the King praying that before any decision is arrived at regarding the political future of Southern Rhodesia the terms on which the incorporation of the territory in the Union could be effected may be ascertained and made known, has been signed by 8,164 white adults in Southern Rhodesia,—more than half the electorate of the territory. The Secretary of State is arranging for the appointment of a delegation fairly representative of all interests in Southern Rhodesia to confer with General Smuts in the early part of this year, with a view to the definite ascertainment of the terms on which the incorporation of the territory in the Union could be effected. It therefore seems probable that in any event the people of Southern Rhodesia will not be called upon to make any decision regarding their political future without having before them terms of incorporation in the Union definitely known and open for their acceptance.

Local Government.

Salisbury and Bulawayo were constituted municipalities in October, 1897, Gwelo and Umtali in August, 1914, and Gatooma in August, 1917. Sanitary Boards are appointed for the other principal towns.

Native Administration.

The Native Department of Southern Rhodesia is administered by the Secretary for Native
Affairs, the duties of the office at the present time being undertaken by the Administrator. He is assisted by a Chief Native Commissioner, whose duties are defined by High Commissioner's Proclamation, No. 32 of 1913. The Territory is divided into 32 native districts, each in charge of a Native Commissioner, who is appointed by the Administrator, with the approval of the High Commissioner, as laid down in the "Southern Rhodesia Order in Council, 1898," and whose duties are defined by the High Commissioner's Proclamation, No. 55 of 1910 (promulgated 14th October, 1910).

Formerly the natives were scattered throughout the country, but now land has been reserved for tribal settlement and suitable for their agricultural and pastoral requirements. A special Commission (The Native Reserves Commission) was appointed by the Imperial Authorities in 1914 for the purpose of finally defining these Native reservations. The Commission concluded its investigations in December, 1915, and His Majesty's Government decided to accept the recommendations of the Commission as a whole. These recommendations were to the effect that 6,610,596 acres should be assigned as additional reserves or extensions to existing reserves, but that 6,673,056 acres hitherto included within reserves are not required for that purpose. The total area of the reserves will therefore be reduced by 1,062,460 acres to 19,428,691 acres, which should be ample for the present and future requirements of the native population. The balance of 1,062,460 acres will be at the disposal of the Company, in the same manner as the rest of the unalienated land of the territory.

An Order in Council giving effect to the recommendations of the Commission, subject to certain minor adjustments, was issued on November 9th, 1920.

The only tax imposed upon the natives is an annual poll-tax of 1/. Excellent provision has been made for those who go to work at the mines. Compounds have been erected and hospitals provided at most of the mines, which are periodically visited by Government Inspectors; their contracts are supervised by officials who see that the terms are faithfully fulfilled by the employers, and in the event of injustice they have their remedy in a court of law under the "Master's and Servant's Ordinance." A native at the mines can easily earn from 30s. to 3l. a month with food and lodging.

Climate.

The Rhodesian plateau lies at an altitude of from 3,000 to 6,000 feet above sea level. Broadly speaking, the year has two divisions, the wet and the dry season. The early rains of the wet season (which is the summer) gradually appear towards the end of October, increase in frequency and force until January, and disappear about the end of April. From May to September there is practically no rain. Taking into consideration the vast extent of the territory the climate naturally varies. In the highlands it is very healthy and bracing. Formerly, in the low-lying districts, malarial fever was very prevalent, but with the opening up of the country, better housing and food, it is rapidly disappearing. The summer is not oppressively hot, nor is the winter very cold. The average temperature shown by the maximum and minimum thermometers in the shade at the principal towns, is as follows:

| Town     | Max. | Min. |
|----------|------|------|
| Salisbury | 76°0 | 51°0 |
| Bulawayo  | 77°0 | 53°0 |

Rainfall.

Season 1919-1920.

| Town     | Inches |
|----------|--------|
| Salisbury | 38-83  |
| Umtali    | 36-48  |
| Bulawayo  | 26-66  |

There are hospitals at Salisbury, Bulawayo, Umtali, Victoria, Hartley, Mazoe, Gwanda, Enkeldoon, Gatooma, Abercorn, Sinoia and Gwelo, each supplied with a complete staff of doctors and nurses. Cottage hospitals have also been erected in various districts to meet the wants of the mining centres.

Population.

A census for Southern Rhodesia was taken on the 3rd May, 1921, showing the number of Europeans to be 33,621. The native population of Southern Rhodesia at 31st December, 1919, was estimated to be 845,593. There were also 3,634 Asiatics and other coloured persons. The European population of Northern Rhodesia on the 3rd May, 1921, was 3,635. The native population is estimated at 979,704.

Chief Towns.

The chief towns of Southern Rhodesia are Salisbury (the seat of the Administration), Hartley, Gatooma, Umtali and Victoria in Mashonaland; and Bulawayo, Gwelo and Selukwe, in Matabeleland. Townships have also been formed at Rusapi, Gwanda, Enkeldoon, Melsetter, Umvuma and at other places.

Railways.

The Bechuanaland Railways (now Rhodesia Railways, Limited) reached Bulawayo on the 19th October, 1897, and the line to that town was formally opened on the 4th November. An extension of the Beira Railway from Umtali reached Salisbury on the 1st May, 1898, and was opened on the 22nd May. On the 1st August, 1900, the widening of the gauge of the Beira Railway to 3 feet 6 inches, the standard gauge of South Africa, was completed. On the 6th October, 1902, the line was completed between Salisbury and Bulawayo, a distance of 301 miles, thus establishing through communication between Cape Town and Beira (over 2,000 miles). The line passes through the mining districts of Hartley, Queque, Gwelo, Bembesi, etc. The railway from Bulawayo to the Victoria Falls (283 miles) on the River Zambesi was completed in June, 1904, and the further extension northward, via Kalomo, to the Broken Hill Mine, 374 miles from the Falls, was opened for traffic on 1st September, 1906. Another section of the line from Broken Hill to the Congo Border (132 miles) was completed in December, 1909, by the Rhodesia-Katanga Junction Railway and Mineral Company, Limited. There is, therefore, through communication between Cape Town and the northern border of Northern Rhodesia, a total distance of 2,149 miles. The Zambesi river is crossed by a bridge 650 feet long, 30 feet wide, and about 420 feet above the level of the water. The structure was formally opened by the late Sir G. H. Darwin, K.C.B., President of the
British Association, on the 12th September, 1905. A line from Heany Junction to the West Nicholson mine in the Gwanda district (103 miles), to open up the gold and coal areas to the south-east, has been constructed, and a line, with a 2-ft gauge, from Salisbury to the Ayrshire Mine in the Lomagundi district (84 miles), was opened for traffic on the 1st November, 1902. A branch (12 miles) has been made from this line to the Eldorado Mine. These two branches have since been widened to standard gauge (3 ft. 6in.), when the last 17 miles of the narrow gauge line from Salisbury to the Ayrshire Mine was taken up. The line has since been extended beyond the Eldorado Mine across the Hunyani River into the Sinoia district (4 miles). A line from Gwelo to Selukwe (24 miles) was completed in August, 1903, and one from Lyndhurst Halt (near Gwelo) to Umvuma (50 miles), was opened in June, 1909. An extension of this line to Victoria, a further 70 miles, was opened on the 10th July, 1914. At the same time the line to Umvuma was diverted from Lyndhurst Halt and taken direct in to Gwelo. A railway from Mount Hampden Junction to the Jumbo Mine in the Mazoe district (about 22 miles) was on the 16th December, 1911, opened for traffic, and an extension of this line to Shamva in the Salisbury district, a distance of about 50 miles from the Jumbo Mine, was opened on 23rd April, 1913. A line to the Matopos, where Mr. Rhodes is buried, was opened for traffic on November 7th, 1903.

The total mileage of the Rhodesian Railway Systems (including the Beira Railways) at the end of 1919 was 2,468 miles.

Lands and Agriculture.

In 1897 a geodetic survey of Southern Rhodesia was initiated under the superintendence of the late Sir David Gill, K.C.B., H.M. Astronomer at the Cape of Good Hope, and was completed to the Zambesi river, in August, 1901.

Unimproved land in Rhodesia may be acquired from the British South Africa Company, the terms of purchase being payment of 5 per cent. of purchase price on allotment and the balance in 19 equal annual instalments subject to an interest charge of 7 per cent. per annum on the unpaid balance, or outright for cash subject to simple occupation conditions. The title deed gives the purchaser the freehold to the land subject to an annual payment of quit-rent, which is roughly £1 per 1,000 acres. Applications for land should be addressed to the Director of Land Settlement, Salisbury, Southern Rhodesia, or to the Secretary, Administrator's Office, Livingstone, Northern Rhodesia. Information and handbooks can be supplied by the British South Africa Company, Rhodesia House, 2, London Wall Buildings, E.C. 2, or at the Rhodesia Information Office 138 Strand, W.C. 2.

Special travelling facilities are given to bona fide farmer settlers and their wives and families proceeding to Rhodesia for the first time to take up land, and special local railway rates are in force for the benefit of the farming community.

With the approval of the Administration, a Department known as the Southern Rhodesia Settlers' Board has recently been formed, the members of which include prominent local farmers, business men and officials of the Agricultural Department. The Board will supply reliable information and advise regarding available land, arrange preliminary training with established farmers and find suitable employment or partnerships for settlers with insufficient capital to start farming independently. The head office of the Board is in Salisbury, but enquiries may, in the first instance, be addressed to the British South Africa Company, Rhodesia House, 2, London Wall Buildings, London, E.C. 2.

Considerable tracts of land have been placed under cultivation, and fresh stock is being imported. It may be said that virtually the whole of Southern Rhodesia is well watered, and adapted for stock-raising and for agriculture. Cattle generally do very well in all parts. Sheep and goats thrive in many parts and will do better after the grass is fed down. Pigs thrive well, and, so far, have never shown disease. Poultry and eggs always command a ready sale at remunerative prices. Throughout the country the conditions of soil and climate are suitable for all kinds of European cereals and vegetables, and, in addition, many trees, shrubs and plants peculiar to sub-tropical regions can be successfully cultivated. Maize, Kaffir-corn, and other native cereals grow well in the rainy season without irrigation. Tobacco culture has now passed the experimental stage, and the industry is being rapidly developed. The plant grows luxuriantly, and a considerable acreage is under cultivation. Maize, tobacco and oranges are being exported, and later it is hoped to export other products such as fibres and cotton. Large fruit orchards have been planted, and nearly all fruit trees thrive, the cultivation of oranges and lemons constituting a rapidly expanding industry. The sale of dairy produce is a profitable industry in the neighbourhood of the towns. Creameries and a bacon factory and oil-expressing plant have been successfully established, and farmers' co-operative societies are in operation in many districts.

Ownership of the Unalienated Land in Southern and Northern Rhodesia.

On the 17th April, 1914, a resolution was passed by the Legislative Council of Southern Rhodesia on the subject of the ownership of the unalienated land in Southern Rhodesia.

This was disputed by the British South Africa Company, and by Order in Council, dated the 16th July, 1914, His Majesty was graciously pleased to refer to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council for hearing and consideration the Question "whether the contentions put forward in the said Resolution of the 17th April, 1914, are well founded?"

The hearing of the Special reference to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, before Earl Loreburn and Lords Dunedin, Atkinson, Sumner, and Scott Dickson, began on the 16th April, 1918, and occupied eleven days. Their Lordships' Report was delivered by Lord Sumner on the 29th July, 1918.

In July, 1919, a Commission, of which Viscount Cave was Chairman, was appointed to investigate the records and accounts of the British South Africa Company in London and Rhodesia, and to make all such enquiries as might be deemed desirable, and to take an account of what would be due to the Company in accordance with the report of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, if the administration of Southern Rhodesia by the Company had been determined
on the 31st March, 1918. The Commission proceeded to Rhodesia, where it held several sittings. On its return to London, the sittings were resumed, and concluded on the 11th January, 1921. The report of the Commission, which is dated the 15th January, 1921, states that 4,435,225/- would have been due to the Company at the date mentioned, but without interest and subject to certain adjustments.

The Buxton Committee's second report recommends that the Company's claims to the land and minerals in Northern Rhodesia, in so far as they are open to doubt, and in any case its claims to any reimbursement of the Administrative Deficits (including the question of Extraordinary Military Expenditure), should be referred to the Privy Council.

Posts and Telegraphs.

The mails from the United Kingdom to Southern Rhodesia are conveyed by the mail steamers of the subsidised Union-Castle Company between Southampton and Table Bay. From Cape Town they are conveyed by train to Bulawayo in three days.

The outlying districts of Southern Rhodesia are served by mail coaches, motors, carts, native runners and cyclists.

Northern Rhodesia receives its mails via Bulawayo. They are conveyed from Bulawayo via the Victoria Falls and Broken Hill, to Livingstone by train, and to the several postal stations in the territory by native runners.

On the 31st of December, 1920, 103 post offices were open in Southern Rhodesia, at 35 of which Money Order and Savings Bank business was transacted. Telegraph Money Orders are also exchanged between Money Order Offices in Rhodesia and with the United Kingdom, the Cape Colony, Natal, Transvaal, and the Orange River Colony.

The rate for inland letters is 2d. per oz., and the same rate to other parts of South Africa. The rate for letters for the Belgian Congo and all foreign countries is 3d. for the first oz., and 1½d. for each additional oz. The rate for letters from the United Kingdom to Rhodesia is 2d. for the first oz., then 1½d. per oz.

The Rhodesian Telegraph and Telephone system extends from Ramathlabama, on the northern border of Cape Colony, to Ujiji in East Africa, and comprises 9,907 miles of wire, on 3,775 miles of poles.

On the 31st December, 1919, 112 telegraph offices were open. The rate for Inland telegrams is 1s. 6d. for every 12 words and 1½d. or every additional word; for telegrams exchanged between Rhodesia and the Union of South Africa and Northern Rhodesia, 2s. for every 12 words and 2d. for every additional word. To places within the Mozambique Company's territory, 2s. 6d. for every 12 words and 2½d. for every additional word. To places on the African Transcontinental Telegraph Line and the Congo, 3s. for every 12 words and 3½d. for every additional word. Cablegrams to Europe 2s. 2d. per word; from Northern Rhodesia, 2s. 5½d. per word. Telegrams from Europe and from South Africa, for the Portuguese province of Manica and Sofala, Portuguese East Africa (including Chinde and Quilimane), the Nyasaland Protectorate, and North Eastern Rhodesia, all pass over the Rhodesian lines.

Telephone exchanges are in operation at 104 towns and mining centres.

Post Office Savings Banks were established on 1st January, 1905. Up to 31st December, 1920, the amount deposited was 1,423,631l., and the amount withdrawn was 1,294,100l.; 171,341l. has been invested in Trustee Securities.

Customs.

Prior to the 1st August, 1899, no duties were leviable upon goods entering Southern Rhodesia. On that date the Customs Ordinance came into operation, and continued in force till August, 1903, when, as a result of the South African Customs Conference, the necessary Ordinance empowering Southern Rhodesia to enter the newly formed Customs Union was unanimously passed by the Legislative Council. This Convention of 1903 was superseded by that of 1906. The Tariff was amended in 1908. On the 30th June, 1910, the Customs Union was terminated by mutual consent, but an agreement has been entered into between Rhodesia and the Union of South Africa, by which the tariff was unaltered.

In August, 1914, "The Southern Rhodesia Order in Council, 1898," was amended by "The Southern Rhodesia (Customs) Amendment Order in Council, 1914."

The chief effect of the Amendment is that Rhodesia is empowered to impose higher import duties than those limited by previous legislation on tobacco and intoxicating liquor, and the imposition of excise and surtax on certain articles manufactured in South Africa and Rhodesia.

Under two Ordinances, Nos. 8 and 9 of 1914, promulgated on 14th August, the duty and excise on intoxicating liquor was raised from 6s. to 12s. a gallon and an excise and surtax were imposed of cigarettes. Under Ordinance No. 8 of 1917, the duty and excise on intoxicating liquor was increased to 13s. a gallon.

"The Customs, Tariff and Management Amending Ordinance, 1914," amending the Ordinances of 1906, 1908 and 1910, and a further Ordinance imposing an import and excise duty on beer and matches were promulgated on 13th November, and under these new Customs regulations and tariffs were published setting out Customs duties now leviable.

In 1914 a new Customs Agreement was entered into between the Union of South Africa and the Administrations of Southern and Northern Rhodesia, rendered necessary by the amendment of its Customs tariff by the Union Parliament, and in 1915, a Customs Agreement on similar lines was entered into between Basutoland, the Bechuanaland Protectorate, Southern Rhodesia and Northern Rhodesia.

An Ordinance, amending in some respects the Customs and Excise tariffs and imposing Excise duties upon sugar and playing cards, was promulgated on the 25th June, 1915.

The estimated value (exclusive of Custom Duty) of merchandise entered for consumption in Southern Rhodesia, as compared with the value of exports, for 1918, and the preceding four years is shown in the table below. In these figures the value of specie and of imported goods re-exported has been excluded.

| Year ended 31st Dec., | Imports | Exports |
|----------------------|---------|---------|
| 1918                 | £3,994,320 | £4,410,955 |
| 1919                 | £4,500,982 | £4,432,152 |
Minerals.

GOLD.—That gold was obtained from Rhodesia in prehistoric times is evidenced from the innumerable "ancient workings," the ruins of temples and forts supposed to date from the time of the Himyarites and Phoenicians, and the discovery of gold beads, gold plates, fine chains, wire, nails, etc. From the occupation of the country in 1890 by the British South Africa Company when the European population amounted to about 500 persons, consisting of the pioneers and a few officials, up to September, 1898, the gold produced only amounted to 6,470 ounces. Since that date the mining industry has been greatly developed, and numerous mines are producing gold. Large beds of coal of excellent quality are worked at Wankie, about 212 miles from Bulawayo, and 70 miles from the Victoria Falls on the River Zambesi, and the production of chrome iron ore and of asbestos is of importance in the markets of the world. The following shows the mineral output from Southern Rhodesia to 31st December, 1920:

| Mineral          | Output, 1920 | Output, 1919 | Output, 31/12/20 |
|------------------|-------------|-------------|-----------------|
| Gold, oz         | 552,404     | 593,222     | 11,714,589      |
| Gold, value      | £23,056,549 | £23,499,498 | £48,281,341     |
| Silver, oz       | 158,982     | 172,000     | 2,970,826       |
| Coal, tons       | 578,402     | 510,040     | 4,989,245       |
| Chrome Ore, tons | 60,269      | 38,282      | 677,109         |
| Copper, tons     | 3,108       | 3,012       | 21,658          |
| Asbestos, tons   | 18,823      | 9,759       | 56,821          |
| Mica, tons       | 477         | 6           | 103             |
| Arsenic, tons    | 243         | 385         | 13,512          |
| Diamonds, carats |            |             |                 |

In addition to the above lead, tungsten ores, antimony, tin and barytes have been produced.

The total value of the mineral production from the commencement to 31st December, 1920, amounted to £56,164,322.

Northern Rhodesia.

The total value of the mineral output to 31/12/20 amounted to £1,534,158L Lead and copper were the principal minerals produced.

Education.

The number of public schools for European children in 1919 was 77, with 4,775 pupils. The public expenditure on European education during the year was £125,564L, and the receipts from fees were £39,623L. A system of medical inspection of schools was inaugurated during the year, and schools of domestic science were opened at Salisbury and Bulawayo.

Native education is carried on at 670 schools of different grades, with an enrolment in 1919 of 39,381 pupils.

Owing to the munificent bequests of the late Cecil Rhodes and Alfred Beit, largely increased educational facilities are now afforded. Scholarships and Bursaries are granted to pupils in the country, and, in addition, there are nine "Rhodes Scholarships" (three per annum) by which a Rhodesian can secure a three years' course at Oxford University.

Sir William H. Milton, K.C.M.G., K.C.V.O., after a term of office extending over sixteen years, resigned the position of Administrator of Southern Rhodesia in October, 1914, and was succeeded by Mr. (now Sir) Drummond Chaplin.

Revenue and Expenditure (Southern Rhodesia).

| Year       | Revenue   | Expenditure |
|------------|-----------|-------------|
| 1910-1911  | £784,908  | £684,683    |
| 1911-1912  | £817,354  | £737,578    |
| 1912-1913  | £757,733  | £884,632    |
| 1913-1914  | £777,068  | £836,476    |
| 1914-1915  | £718,127  | £848,611    |
| 1915-1916  | £74,629   | £768,954    |
| 1916-1917  | £736,128  | £751,086    |
| 1917-1918  | £737,443  | £790,470    |
| 1918-1919  | £887,800  | £888,913    |
| 1919-1920  | £1,053,396| £1,082,372  |

Full details as to the administration of Rhodesia, and as to climate and products, with routes to and from Rhodesia, can be obtained at the head offices of the British South Africa Company, Rhodesia House, 2, London Wall Buildings, London, E.C. 2, or at the Company's Emigration and Information Office, 138, Strand, W.C. 2.

Board of Directors of the British South Africa Company.

P. Lyttelton Gell, Esq. (President).
Rochfort Maguire, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Lewis Michell, C.V.O.
Sir Henry Birchenough, Bart., K.C.M.G.
The Marquess of Winchester.
Sir Otto Beit, K.C.M.G.
Baron E. B. d'Erlanger.
D. O. Malcolm, Esq.
Brig.-Gen. the Hon. E. Baring, C.V.O.
The Duke of Abercorn.
Major P. S. Inskipp, O.B.E.
Secretary, A. P. Millar.
Registrar, R. C. Bolton.
Chief Accountant, P. J. Baird, A.C.A.

Railways.

Consulting Engineers in London, Sir Douglas Fox and Partners.
Consulting Engineer in Rhodesia, Sir Charles Metcalfe, Bart.

Southern Rhodesia Administration.

Administrator, Sir Drummond P. Chaplin, K.C.M.G.
Imperial Resident Commissioner, C. Douglas Jones, O.M.G.

Executive Council.

The Administrator.
The Resident Commissioner.
P. D. L. Fynn, Treasurer.
J. D. Mackenzie, Attorney-General.
E. W. S. Montagu, Secretary for Mines and Works.

Legislative Council.

The Administrator, President.
The Resident Commissioner.
P. D. L. Fynn, Treasurer.
J. D. Mackenzie, Attorney-General.
E. W. S. Montagu, Secretary for Mines and Works.
E. A. Nobbs, Ph.D., B.Sc., Director of Agriculture.
E. C. Baxter, Controller of Customs.
R. McIlwaine.
Major W. J. Boggie, Gwelo.
Sir Charles P. J. Coghlan, Bulawayo North.
Lionel Cripps, Bulawayo.
Capt. W. D. Douglas-Jones, Midland.
R. A. Fletcher, Western.
R. D. Gilchrist, Northern.
F. L. Hadfield, Bulawayo South.
Mrs. E. Tawee Jollie, Eastern.
W. M. Leggate, Salisbury District.
J. B. Macdonald, Hartley.
J. McCleary, Marandellas.
H. U. Moffat, Victoria.
J. Stewart, Salisbury Town.
Clerk of Councils, J. Robertson.

Administrator's Department.
Secretary, James Robertson.
Private Secretary, E. N. Carlton.
Assistant Private Secretary, R. Gunnis.
Chief Clerk, H. J. Nanson.
Medical Director, A. M. Fleming, C.M.G., M.B.,
F.R.C.S., D.P.H.
Director of Education, L. M. Foggin, M.A.

Treasurer's Department.
Treasurer, P. D. L. Fynn.
Secretary A. C. Bagshawe.
Postmaster-General, A. E. Holloway.
Controller of Customs, E. C. Baxter.

Native Affairs Department.
Secretary for Native Affairs, Sir Drummond Chaplin, K.C.M.G.
Chief Native Commissioner, H. J. Taylor.

Superintendents of Natives.
Division I. W. S. Taberer.
II. C. L. Carbutt.
III. F. G. Elliott.
IV. H. M. G. Jackson.
V. S. N. G. Jackson.

Native Commissioners.
Mashonaland:—
Charter, J. W. Posselt
Chibii, L. F. Bibra
Chilimamizi, A. T. Hol-
land
Darwin, J. G. Roberts
Gutu, E. T. Kenny
Hartley, H. P. M. Niel-
sen
Inyanya, W. S. Bazeley
Lomagundi, E. G. How-
man
Makoni,
Marandellas, F. J. Wane

Matabeleland:—
Belingwe, J. B. Henry
Bubi, C. L. Carbutt
Bulalima-Mangwe, R.
Lanning
Bulawayo, N. H. Wilson
Gwanda, F. W. T.
Posselt
Gwelo, E. J. Eardley-
Mare

Director of Native Development, H. S. Keigwin, M.A.

Legal Department.
Attorney-General, J. D. Mackenzie.
Secretary to the Law Department, A. E. Speight,
B.A., LL.B.
Solicitor-General, R. McIlwaine.
Registrar of Deeds, Companies, and Patents,
G. J. King.
Registrar of Deeds (Bulawayo), A. R. Tonge.

High Court.
Senior Judge, C. H. Tredgold, K.C.
Puisne Judge, A. F. Russell.
Master, Registrar and Sheriff, W. R. Shand.

British South Africa Police.
Commandant General Rhodesian Forces and
Commissioner, Hon. Major-Gen. Sir A. H. M.
Edwards, C.B., M.V.O.
Assistant Commissioner of Police, Lieut.-Col. A.
E. Capell.

District Courts and Offices.
Mashonaland.
Salisbury:—
Civil Commissioner, G. J. King.
Magistrate, P. G. Smith.
Enkeldoorn:—
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, C. M.
Fletcher.
Umtali:—
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, N. H.
Chataway.
Melsetter:—
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, W. W.
Tucker.
Victoria:—
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, C.W. Cary.
Hartley:—
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, F. J.
Clarke.

Matabeleland.
Bulawayo:—
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, J. P. L. de
Smidt.
Assistant Magistrate, A. E. Boyton.
Gwelo:—
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, A. L.
Baker.
Assistant Magistrate, D. Bill.
Gwanda:—
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, F. A. Yates.

Mines and Public Works.
Secretary for Mines and Works, E. W. S.
Montagu.
Under Secretary for Mines and Works, G. N.
Fleming.
Inspectors of Mines, C. A. B. Colville, A. E.
Pooklington.
Mining Commissioners, E. T. Bolling, C. D.
Fleming, H. P. Selmes, D. McDonald, S. B.
Norris (acting), E. E. F. Blackwell (acting).
Director of Public Works, J. R. Hobson.

Lands.
Surveyor-General, W. J. Atherstone.

Agriculture.
Director of Agriculture, Registrar of Brands and
Controller of Stock, E. A. Nobbe, Ph.D.,
B.Sc.
Chief Veterinary Surgeon, J. M. Sinclair,
M.R.C.V.S.
Auditor-General, R. H. Everett.

Commercial Department (Rhodesia).
Commercial Representative, W. Olive.
Director of Land Settlement, F. W. Inskipp.
Estates Manager, C. D. Wise.
Ranches—Rhodesdale Ranch, Manager, G. G. F.
Chomley; Nuanetsi Ranch, Manager, R. Kelly.

Cape Town Agency.
Local Secretary, F. B. Philip, M.B.E.

