KEDAH.

His Highness Sir Abdul Hamid Halimshah ibni Ahmad Tajudin, K.C.M.G., Sultan; His Highness Tunku Ibrahim, C.M.G., C.V.O., Regent.

Kedah is a State on the West coast of the Malay Peninsula, situated between the parallels of 5° 5' and 6° 35' N. lat. and the meridians of 99° 35' and 101° 10' E. long. It is bordered on the interior (North and East) by the States of Singgora and Patani (Siamese) and by the State of Perak (F.M.S.), and extends along the sea coast from the River Sanglang, its boundary with its northern neighbour the State of Perlis (under British protection), to the Muda River, its boundary with Province Wellesley. Thence it extends behind the narrow strip of coast which forms Province Wellesley, down to the northern bank of the Krian River, its boundary with the State of Perak.

Both the island of Penang and the territory of Province Wellesley were originally part of Kedah. Penang was acquired from the "King of Quedah" by Captain Light on behalf of the East India Company by the treaty of 1786, and Province Wellesley was ceded by Kedah to Sir George Leith, on behalf of the Company, by the treaty of 1800, to enable the Company to check the piracies on the coast. A sum of £10,000 is, under the treaty of 1869, paid annually by the Government of the Straits Settlements to the Kedah Government in respect of Penang and Province Wellesley.

The State includes the island of Langkawi and a number of smaller islands to the South. It formerly included the island of Terutau to the North of Langkawi, but this island and a small area in the interior of the State, in the eastern water-shed, were ceded to Siam in the treaty of 1909.

The mainland of Kedah is about 105 miles in length and about 65 miles in width at its widest part. Its area is, including the Langkawi groups, about 3,640 square miles. The two highest peaks on the mainland are Gunong Jerai (3,986 feet) and Bukit Perak (2,823 feet). Gunong Raia, on Langkawi Island, is 2,880 feet high.

History.

There are no authentic records of the early history of the State, and little is known except that the country was converted to Muhammadanism in the 15th or 16th century, and that, like the other States in the Peninsula, it was at various times under the domination of Burmah, Acheen, Malacca, and Siam. Like the other States, too, it depended upon the personality of its ruler. Under a strong raja its boundaries extended to include Setul, Perlis, and part of Singgora on the North, and Krian on the South, and under a weaker man, or upon the rising of a stronger raja beyond the borders its boundaries contracted.

There is no record of the Portuguese, during their occupation of Malacca (A.D. 1511 to 1641), having had any intercourse with Kedah. The Dutch, however, after they had wrested Malacca from the Portuguese, established Upperhoofden (commandante) in Kedah from 1654 to 1711.

From that date until 1786, when Captain Light acquired Penang from the Sultan for the East India Company, little is known of the history of the State.

In 1821, a Siamese fleet appeared off the mouth of the Kedah River, and, by a sudden descent upon the unexpectant Malays, took possession of the fort, and later of the river. The Sultan, who was in the Merbok district at the time, fled to Province Wellesley, where he was afforded protection by the British Government. He was later afforded an asylum in Malacca.

In 1831, Tunku Kudin, a nephew of the Sultan, made a desperate attempt to recover Kedah from the Siamese. He succeeded in driving out the Siamese, and held the country from April until October, but was later conquered by a combined force of British and Siamese. In 1838, the Malays made another attempt under Tunku Muhammad Saad, and again succeeded in expelling the Siamese. Again, however, they were worsted by the combination of a Siamese army and a blockade by British gunboats.

In 1841 the Siamese allowed the Sultan to return to Kedah and re-assume the government. The Sultan was, however, only allowed to exercise authority over part of the territory that formerly was subject to him. Setul, Perlis, and Kubang Pasu were given to other rajas independent of him. Setul, under the treaty of 1909, is now part of Siam (Monthon Puket); Perlis is still independent and is now under British protection. Kubang Pasu was some years ago again made part of Kedah.

General Description.

The language line between Siamese and Malay runs through Kedah and Perlis, and in the interior parts of these States the Malays speak Siamese as freely as their own language. There is a large number of Sam-sams—a mixed race of Siamese and Malays—who are Muhammadans. Only a few families of the aborigines (Semang) are left in the forest at the source of the Muda River; 209 "nomadic aboriginals" were counted at the 1931 census.

South Kedah, the area lying South of the mountain known as Kedah Peak (Gunong Jerai), is for the most part populated with Europeans, Chinese and Tamils planting rubber, coconuts and tapioca. There is also a Malay population planting rice along the banks of the Muda River and in the low lying land along the coast. Kulim was formerly a tin-mining centre of
some importance, but the alluvial deposits are now said to be worked out.

North Kedah is almost entirely populated by Malay cultivators of rice. The soil is generally a heavy fertile clay. A quantity of rice is exported annually to Penang and to the Federated Malay States.

The population of Kedah was 338,558 at the 1921 census and 429,691 at the 1931 census. At mid 1932 the population was estimated to be 423,074, of whom 291,621 were Malays, 379 Europeans, 108 Eurasians, 73,681 Chinese, 43,690 Indians, and 13,709 "other races."

Galena has been found in Langkawi, and indications of coal and oil have been reported; nothing of commercial value has, however, yet been discovered, with the exception of a deposit of marble which is described as the equal of any in Europe.

Climate.

The climate resembles that of Perak. Meteorological returns kept in ten places record an average shade temperature in the day-time rising to over 90° F. and falling to nearly 70° F. at night. The driest months are January to March and the wettest August to October, when half the annual rainfall occurs, averaging from 100 to 130 inches a year. Cholera has sometimes broken out in prolonged droughts, but the provision of a good water supply which is now completed, should prevent this. The health on rubber and other estates is good.

Communications.

Steamers ply between Penang and Sungei Patani (Central Kedah), and between Penang and Alor Star (the capital, six miles up the Kedah River) in North Kedah. There is a bi-weekly steamer communication between Penang and Langkawi Island.

A metalled road connects Alor Star with Province Wellesley, a distance of 45 miles. A metalled road extends to the Perlis boundary (25 miles), and a road which branches off at the 12th mile connects the State with Singgora. Another road extends to Kuala Nerang at the 23rd mile from Alor Star. A metalled road has been made to Baling and North Perak, and other metalled roads have been completed or are under construction. There are a number of earth roads connecting the tapioca and rubber estates in South Kedah with the towns; 225 miles of canals are maintained by the Public Works Department.

The Federated Malay States railway administration has extended its railway service through Kodah into Perlis. The line leaves the main line at Bukit Mertajam, in Province Wellesley and is 98 miles in length to the Siamese frontier, trains have been running regularly since October, 1915. A connection through Perlis with the Siamese railway system has been completed, establishing railway communication between Bangkok and Singapore.

There is an aerodrome at Alor Star, where the Dutch Air Mail make regular weekly landings.

Telegraphic and telephonic communication extends throughout the State.

Education.

There are English schools in Alor Star (665 pupils) and Sungei Patani (190 pupils) and a Malay Girls' school in Alor Star. There are 88 Malay schools, including 5 Girls' schools, and a Trade school.

Constitution.

Until the beginning of this century the Siamese Government interfered but little in the government of the country, only requiring the Sultan to refer to Bangkok matters of importance, and applications for land by foreign subjects. In 1905, however, the finances of the country had reached such a state that the Sultan was compelled to negotiate with Siam for a loan in order to avoid bankruptcy. With the loan the Siamese Government sent an adviser to advise the Sultan in the general management of the country, and more particularly in its finances.

In 1905, the Sultan by an edict appointed a State Council to assist him in the administration of the country. The first President was H.H. the Raja Muda, Tunku Abdul Aziz, who died in 1907. He was succeeded by H.H. Tunku Mahmud who was in turn succeeded in 1918 by H.H. Tunku Ibrahim.

In 1913, the Sultan's health became such that it was necessary to appoint his eldest son, Tunku Ibrahim, C.M.G., C.V.O., as Regent, pending the restoration of the Sultan's health.

With the transfer of the suzerainty of Kedah from Siam to Great Britain under the treaty of 1909, the adviser appointed by Siam has been replaced by an adviser appointed by Great Britain.

Under the terms of the agreement between His Britannic Majesty's Government and the State of Kedah dated the 1st November, 1923 the supreme authority in the State is vested in the Sultan in Council, which Council consists of His Highness the Sultan as President, three other Malay members selected by name or office by His Highness with the approval of His Excellency the High Commissioner for the Malay States, and the British Adviser.

Finance.

The amount of the loan obtained in 1905 from Siam was of $2,800,000 at the rate of 8 per cent. This loan was, with the transfer of the suzerainty of the State from Siam to Great Britain under the treaty of 1909, taken over by the Federated Malay States Government at 4 per cent, but the whole amount has been paid off and the State is now free from debt. Accumulated surplus funds (excess of Assets over Liabilities) amounted to $3,489,791 at the end of 1931, in addition to an "Opium Revenue Replacement Fund" with investments valued at $6,187,879.

Public revenue and expenditure:

| Year | Revenue | Expenditure |
|------|---------|-------------|
| A.H. 1351 (A.D. 1932-1933) | $4,983,345 | $5,068,401 |

Trade.

The following are the principal exports from Kedah:—Padi and rice, rubber, copra, arecanuts, tapioca and sago, forest produce, tin-ore, fish, bricks, cattle, hides and horns, pigs and poultry.

The value of the Kodah trade with the Straits Settlements during 1351 was as follows:—Exports, $9,235,297; imports, $6,285,591.

The value of Kedah trade with the F.M.S. during 1351 was: Export, $1,187,742; imports, $65,398.

Administration.

His Highness the Sultan, Sir Abdul Hamid Halimshah ibni Sultan Ahmad Tajuddin Mukarramshah, K.C.M.B.

President, State Council, His Highness the Regent, Tunku Ibrahim, C.M.G., C.V.O., ibn Sir Abdul Hamid Halimshah.

Members of the State Council, H.H. Tunku Mahmud, C.M.G., ibni Sultan Ahmad Tajuddin Mukarramshah;

The British Adviser: Tunku Mohamed ibni Sultan Sir Abdul Hamid Halim Shah; Tunku Yacob ibni Sultan Sir Abdul Hamid Halim Shah.

British Adviser, J. D. Hall, M.C.S.

Assistant Adviser, Capt. J. Huggins, M.C.S.

Secretary to Government, Che Md. Sheriff.
