THE GOLD COAST COLONY.

Situation and Native Tribes.

The Gold Coast Colony, with Ashanti, the Protected Northern Territories, and Togoland under British Mandate, is situated on the Gulf of Guinea, between 3° 7' W. long, and 1° 14' E. long., and is bounded on the west by the French colony of the Ivory Coast, on the east by Togoland under French Mandate, on the north by the French Colony of the Upper Volta, and on the south by the sea.

The area of the Colony is 23,937 square miles, of Ashanti, 24,379, of the Northern Territories, 30,486, and of Togoland under British Mandate, 13,041.

The Colony is inhabited by a large number of tribes, whose customs and forms of government are of a more or less similar character. Each tribe has its own head chief and every town or village of the tribe a chief or headman.

The head chiefs and chiefs form the council of the tribe, and assist in dealing with matters affecting its general welfare. The seat of the chiefs' stools is for the most part female line, the heir to the stool being from among the sons of the occupant's sisters, brothers and the male off-spring of his mother's side.

The principal sea coast states are the following:—Nzima, Ahanta, Sekondi, Keta, Edina, Oguaa, Winneba, Assin Gonja, Adangme, Awuena and Agbogome.

In the interior of the Colony the principal states are:—Aowin, upper and lower Sefwi, upper and lower Denkera, Tufesi, Esikuma, Ajumako, Birim Akim Abuakwa, Birim Kwahu, Akim Kotoku, Akwapim, and western Krobo, Akwamu, Krople, and Ningo.

A number of different languages are spoken, the principal being, Twi, Fante, and Ga; but the use of English is widespread.

For the purposes of administration the Colony is divided into three provinces, each presided over by a Provincial Commissioner. These Provinces are further divided into districts, presided over by District Commissioners. Most of these Commissioners perform judicial duties as magistrates in addition to being in administrative charge of their districts.

The districts are as follows:

1. Western province:—Districts—Axim, Sekondi-Tarkwa, Sekondi-Dixcove, Sefwi and Saltpond.
2. Central province:—Districts—Cape Coast, Saltpond, Winneba, Western Akim.
3. Eastern province:—Districts—Agona, Juaben, Akwapim, Volta River, Birim Akim-Abuakwa and Birim Kwahu (Togoland).

History.

Little is known of the history of the part of the Gold Coast prior to the first recorded contact with Europeans, which took place towards the end of the 15th century, but tradition, borne out by the language distribution and by the absence of large earlier settlements, is that the population resulted from a series of waves of immigration in comparatively recent history.

Of these immigrants the most numerous were the Akans who, displaced by more warlike organised tribes, came from the north-west in search of sanctuary to the forests of the Gold Coast, sections of them eventually reaching the numbers being augmented by a succession of waves, the Akans assimilated the aborigines gradually occupied the greater part of the land.

Behind the Akans came the Moshi who, by conquest and partly by peaceful penetration, established supremacy over the inhabitants of the northern portion of the Gold Coast and established Mamprussi and Dagomba kingdoms under some or other relatives of their leaders. Later date the south-east corner of the Colony was peopled by an infiltration of Ga, Adangbe tribes from the east and north-east.

The first Europeans to reach the Gold Coast were the Portuguese who, arriving in 1471, built at Elmina eleven years later in order to maintain their trading monopoly. Feeble efforts were made on the part of other European Powers, including the...
British, were made to obtain a footing on the Coast, but the Portuguese were never seriously challenged until the advent of the Dutch in 1595.

At first the Portuguese were interested in obtaining gold, ivory and spices, but with the opening up of the New World there came a demand for cheap labour for the plantations. So commenced the transatlantic slave trade which, until its decline and abolition in the 19th century, shaped the history of the Gold Coast.

The main results of the slave trade were two-fold. First, in order to feed the slaves awaiting shipment and their captors, the Portuguese were obliged to introduce food plants and to teach an improved method of agriculture to a people hitherto largely dependent for food on the natural resources of the forest and sea. Secondly, the lucrative nature of the trade attracted the attention of other European nations besides the Portuguese to the possibilities of the Gold Coast.

The Dutch, appearing on the Coast in 1595, rapidly undermined the domination of the Portuguese. In 1637 they captured Elmina and in 1642 the Portuguese abandoned all their possessions in the Gold Coast to the newcomers. Other European Powers, including the British, followed and, fighting amongst themselves, scrambled for a footing on the Coast. By 1750, however, the year in which the African Company of Merchants was formed and subsidised by the British Government to the extent of £13,000 per annum, all had withdrawn except the Dutch with their headquarters at Elmina, the Danes with their headquarters at Christiansborg and the British with their headquarters at Cape Coast Castle.

In 1821 the British Government first assumed the control of the British settlements in the Gold Coast, and the African Company of Merchants was dissolved, its possessions being vested in the Crown and placed under the Government of Sierra Leone. Seven years later, however, the British Government, after considering complete withdrawal from the Coast, entrusted the government of the settlements in the Gold Coast to a Committee of London Merchants. In 1843, however, the 1821 arrangement was restored in consequence of suspected slave trading, which had been abolished by Great Britain in 1833. The year 1850 saw the separation of the British forts and settlements of the Gold Coast from Sierra Leone, the cession of the Danish possessions to Britain and the creation by Letters Patent of Executive and Legislative Councils, but in 1866 government from Sierra Leone was resumed.

In 1872 the Dutch withdrew from the Gold Coast, handing over their possessions to the British. Two years later, after Sir Garnet Wolseley's successful Ashanti campaign, came the final separation from Sierra Leone, measures being taken on the conclusion of peace for placing the government of the Gold Coast on a footing of efficiency and security. A new Charter was issued dated the 24th of July, 1874, separating Her Majesty's Settlements on the Gold Coast and Lagos from the Government of Sierra Leone and constituting them into one Colony under the style of the Gold Coast Colony under a Governor-in-Chief with an Administrator at Lagos.

In 1886 all the settlements and territories belonging to Her Majesty on the Gold Coast were, by Letters Patent dated the 13th January, formed into a distinct Colony, Lagos being separated therefrom. This territory, however, did not include all the areas under British protection and had no specified boundaries. To regularise the position, therefore, these protected areas were annexed to His Majesty's Dominions and declared to be part and parcel of His Majesty's Gold Coast Colony by Order-in-Council of the 26th September, 1901. The boundaries of the Colony thus constituted were defined by Order-in-Council dated the 22nd October, 1906, and have since remained unchanged.

Constitution.

The constitutional instrument providing for the Government of the Colony are the Letters Patent and Royal Instructions dated the 23rd of May, 1925, the former of which create the office of Governor and Commander-in-Chief and constitute an Executive Council consisting of such persons as shall be directed by Instructions under the Royal Sign Manual and Signet, and a Legislative Council constituted in such manner and consisting of the Governor and such persons as are directed by the Order in Council of the 8th of April, 1925, and known as the Gold Coast Colony (Legislative Council) Order in Council, 1925. Royal Instructions were also passed on the 23rd May, 1925, directing that the Executive Council should consist of the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney-General, the Treasurer, the Director of Medical and Sanitary Services, and the Secretary of Native Affairs (these to be styled ex-officio Members) and such other persons as were at the date of the coming into operation of the aforesaid Letters Patent Members of the Council or as may be appointed under the Royal Sign Manual and Signet or as the Governor may appoint in pursuance of Instructions through a Secretary of State. The Legislative Council for the first time contains an elective element and consists of the Governor as President together with fifteen Official Members and fourteen Unofficial Members. The Official Members are the five senior Members of the Executive Council, the Comptroller of Customs, the Director of Public Works, the General Manager of the Railway, the Commissioners of the Eastern, Central and Western Provinces, as ex-officio Members, and such other officials not exceeding two at any one time as the Governor may appoint. The Unofficial Members are six Provincial Members, namely three for the Eastern Province, two for the Central Province, and one for the Western Province; three Municipal Members, namely; one each for the towns of Accra, Cape Coast and Sekondi respectively; one European Mercantile Member, one European Mining Member and three Europeans nominated by the Governor. The Provincial Members are Head Chiefs elected by the Provincial Councils of the said Provinces; the Municipal Members are elected by the electorate of the said towns; the Mercantile Member is elected by the Chambers of Commerce; and the Mining Member is elected by the Chamber of Mines.

Municipal Government.

The Town Councils Ordinance has been extended to the towns of Accra, Sekondi and Cape Coast. The town of Kumasi in Ashanti is under the control of a statutory corporation styled the Kumasi Public Health Board.

Law and Justice.

The Law of the Colony is the Common law, the doctrines of equity, and the statutes of genera, application in force in England, on the 24th July-1874, modified by a large number of Local Ordinances passed since that date. The Criminal Law was codified in 1892, and the civil and criminal procedure are regulated by the Supreme Court and Criminal Procedure Ordinances both originally passed in 1876.

Justice is administered by the Supreme Court, which is presided over by the Chief Justice and five Puisne Judges. Divisional Courts of the Supreme Court are held in different parts of the colony.
There are also a large number of inferior Courts with limited criminal and civil jurisdiction, some of which are presided over by Police Magistrates and the remainder by Commissioners. The Supreme Court has an original civil and criminal jurisdiction, and also decides appeals from the inferior courts. The Chief Justice, and the Judges in their respective provinces have also powers of revision of the decisions of the Magistrates and Commissioners in criminal cases. Appeals from the Divisional Courts and from the Courts of the Provincial Commissioners in land cases lie to the recently established West African Court of Appeal.

Native customary law is administered in all the Courts, in so far as it is not incompatible with any ordinance, or rule, regulation, order, proclamation, or bye-law made under any ordinance for the time being in force in the Colony, and not repugnant to natural justice, equity and good conscience.

Native Tribunals, presided over by Paramount or Divisional Chiefs, are established throughout the Colony, with criminal and civil jurisdiction in cases where the parties are subject thereto. Such jurisdiction has been much increased by recent legislation, and certain judicial powers have also been conferred upon State Councils and Provincial Councils.

There is an appeal from the Tribunal of a Divisional Chief to that of a Paramount Chief, and from a Paramount Chief's Tribunal to the District Commissioner's Court; but, where a title to land is in dispute, the appeal lies from the Paramount Chief's Tribunal to the Provincial Commissioner's Court.

**Prisons.**

There are four convict and 21 local prisons.

The convict prisons are at Accra, Sekondi, Kumasi and Tamale.

The following industries are carried on successfully: Carpentry, cabinet-making, tailoring, mat and basket making, boot and shoe making, weaving, farming, string and rope making, brick-making, brush and broom making.

The Mark System, whereby the remission of one quarter of a sentence can be earned by hard work and good conduct, is applied to all persons sentenced to two years or more.

A Boys' Industrial Home under the control of the Salvation Army has been established at Ada.

**Climate.**

The climate although hot and damp, is cooler than that of most tropical countries situated in similar latitudes. The most adverse feature relative to the residence of Europeans is the very high relative humidity which only falls below 80° in the dry districts of the north and east and during the Harmattan. The average mean temperature is from 77°-81°, being greatest in the north and east and lowest in the forest area. Extremes of shade temperature have been 110° in Tamale and 49° at Kumasi.

The rainfall varies with the configuration of the country, being greatest in the south-western corner around Axim and least in the far north and coastal belt. There is the double wet season common to Tropical Africa corresponding to the double passage of the sun, the major rains in the south being in May and June and the lesser rains in September and October. In the Northern Territories intensity of the rains is reversed and in the extreme north the passages of the sun are so near to one another in date that there is only one wet season.

The most pronounced season is the Harmattan characterised by a dry north-east wind which blows from the Sahara carrying clouds of red dust during the period of cessation of the south-west monsoon. This occurs at the period when the sun is passing southwards to the spring solstice during January and February, and the feature is the terrific desiccation of the atmosphere. A drop of 65% of relative humidity has been experienced in 24 hours with a result that papers and books curl up and the skin appears parched and dry. The daily range of temperature is more than doubled and the period is very trying to Europeans. For the year 1932, the average maximum shade temperatures were:- At Accra 85°-7° F., Sekondi 89°-3° F., Kumasi 87°-6° F. and Tamale 98°-7° F. The rainfall was 30-34, 28-38, 55-37 and 33-32 inches whilst the mean temperatures were 79-5° F., 80-6° F., 78-1° F. and 80-3° F. respectively.

**Mail and Steamship Services.**

The African Steamship Company and the British and African Steamship Navigation Company Limited are under contract with the Postmaster-General for conveyance of His Majesty's mails between Liverpool and the West and South-West coasts of Africa.

Regular sailings are maintained between Liverpool and West African ports for mails, passengers and cargo. There are also regular sailings from London.

A mail steamer of these Companies leaves Liverpool for Calabar and Port Harcourt alternately once a fortnight. The Port Harcourt Service calls at Madeira, Freetown, Monrovia, Takoradi, Accra, Lagos and Port Harcourt. The Calabar Service calls at Madeira, Las Palmas, Bathurst, Freetown, Takoradi, Accra, Lagos and Calabar; the usual length of voyage being thirteen days to Gold Coast ports.

Cargo steamers are despatched from Liverpool once every three weeks, calling at the principal Gold Coast ports. Length of voyage varies from 20 to 25 days.

Cargo steamers are despatched monthly, or as inducement offers, from New York, calling at the principal Gold Coast ports outwards and homewards. Length of voyage varies from 30 to 35 days.

Cargo steamers are despatched from Hamburg fortnightly, calling at Rotterdam, Antwerp and London for the principal Gold Coast ports. Length of voyage varies from 20 to 30 days.

Cargo Steamers are despatched monthly, or as inducement offers, from Canada to West, South and East African ports, the usual itinerary being Montreal, Freetown, Cape Town, Port Elizabeth, East London, Durban, Lourenco Marques, Beira. This Service occasionally calls at Gold Coast ports homewards. The length of voyage between Montreal and Cape Town is about 25 days.

Elder Dempster Lines, Limited, act as managers for these two companies, and the Agents in the Gold Coast are the West African Lighterage and Transport Company, Limited.

Mail steamers of Chargeurs Reunis Line, sailing from Bordeaux, call at Accra on the homeward voyage for passengers and cargo once a month. Cargo steamers call at regular intervals outwards and homewards. Local Agents:- United Africa Company, Limited, Lighterage Dept.

Passenger and cargo steamers of Compagnie Francaise de Navigation a Vapeur (Cyp. Fabre), and Compagnie Marseillaise de Navigation a Vapeur (Cie Fraissinet), sailing from Marseilles call frequently outwards and homewards at Gold Coast ports. Local Agents:- United Africa Company, Limited, Lighterage Department.

Cargo steamers, with passenger accommodation, of the American West African Line are despatched twice monthly from New York and from the Gulf of Mexico, calling at the principal Gold Coast ports. These sailings are augmented during the Colony's cacao season to relieve congestion of cacao destined
for America. The voyage from New York is now reduced to 28 days. Calls are also made at all ports to Loanda, including the Belgian Congo. Local Agents:—United Africa Company Limited, Lighterage Department.

Cargo steamers of the United Africa Company, Limited, with limited accommodation for passengers, are despatched from Liverpool and the Continent. There are about two sailings per month, and steamers call outwards at all Gold Coast ports, and call homewards as inducement offers. Local Agents:—United Africa Company, Limited, Lighterage Department.

Cargo steamers of the Societe Navale de L'Ouest sail monthly from Hamburg, Antwerp, Havre and Bordeaux and call at the principal Gold Coast ports. They call homewards at continental ports as inducement offers. Local Agents:—United Africa Company, Limited, Lighterage Department.

Cargo steamers of the Navigazione Libera Triestina Line sailing from Venice, Trieste, Naples, Genoa, Marseilles and Barcelona call at the principal Gold Coast ports once every month outwards and homewards. Local Agents:—United Africa Company, Limited, Lighterage Department.

Mail and Passenger steamers of the German-African Lines (Woermann-Linie A.G., Deutsche Ost-Afrika Linie, Hamburg Amerika Linie (Afrika Dienst) and Hamburg Bremer (Afrika Linie) managed by the Woermann-Linie A.G. of Hamburg, sail from Hamburg to West African ports via Rotterdam, Boulogne s.M. and Southampton at about monthly intervals, calling at Freetown, Monrovia, Takoradi, Accra, Lagos, Port Harcourt, Victoria, Tiko, Duala and Fernando Po.

Two to three Mail and Passenger Steamers to South and East Africa are despatched every month from Hamburg, running either via the Canary Islands and Capetown, or via the Mediterranean and Suez, but these steamers do not always call at Gold Coast ports.

Cargo steamers of the above Lines are despatched from Hamburg via Rotterdam, Antwerp and Havre about twice a month at regular intervals to African ports. Representative for the Gold Coast:—Woermann-Linie, Resident Agent, Accra.

The Holland West-Afrika Lijn N.V., Amsterdam, maintain mail, passenger and freight services from Hamburg, Amsterdam and Bordeaux to the West African ports by two sailings monthly.

The mail and passenger steamers are despatched monthly from Hamburg via Amsterdam, Bordeaux (through tickets from United Kingdom), reaching Takoradi in 13 days from Bordeaux. After Accra they proceed down the coast as far as Togo, Dahomey, Nigeria, Fernando Po and the Cameroons.

They call homewards at Accra and Takoradi and reach Europe via Freetown and Conakry within 14 days. All these steamers call at Le Havre homewards and passengers for the United Kingdom are transhipped to Southampton without additional charge.

Cargo steamers of this Line are despatched once every six weeks from Hamburg, Amsterdam and Bordeaux. Several of these boats have limited passenger accommodation. The length of voyage varies from 17 to 27 days.

Local Agents:—Holland West-Afrika Lijn N.V., P.O. Box 269, Accra.

Harbours.

The Gold Coast was for many years at a great disadvantage in that it possessed no deep-water harbour. Jetties protected by breakwaters were built at Sekondi and Accra, for the use of surf boats and lighters.

Sekondi has been replaced by a deep-water harbour a few miles to the westward at Takoradi which was opened to shipping in 1928. The Harbour is 220 acres in extent and provides moorings for six ocean-going ships whilst four can be berthed alongside the main wharf, which contains a large manganese-loading transporter.

Internal Communications.

Railway communication consists of a main line running from Sekondi to Kumasi, thence to Accra, a distance of 361 miles, with branches, Takoradi Junction to Takoradi (7 miles), Inchaban Junction to Inchaban (4 miles), Tarkwa to Prestea (19 miles), and Huni Valley to Kade (99 miles). The Main Line and Branches are 3' 6" gauge. There is a branch line, Accra to Weshiang (Accra Water Works), 10 miles in length, which is 5' 6" gauge.

The railway gross earnings for the year 1932-33 were £63,103, and the working expenditure, including provision for pensions, was £420,800. (Transport Section excluded.) The total number of miles open for traffic on the 31st March, 1933, was 500, and the capital cost £3,308,174.

The mileage of motor roads maintained by the Public Works Department is 1,8442 miles, as follows:

| District          | Tarred Miles | Gravel Miles | Total Miles |
|-------------------|--------------|--------------|-------------|
| Accra District    | 41½          | 6½           | 123¾        |
| Nasawum District  | 43           | 2            | 74¼         |
| Koforidua District| 46½          | 20¼          | 60¾         |
| Keta District     | 1            | 6            | 7           |
| Winneba District  | 54½          | 6½           | 211½        |
| Cape Coast District| 62½          | 9            | 151¾        |
| Sekondi District  | 6            | 5            | 10¾         |
| Dunkwa District   | —            | 2            | 239¾        |
| Ashanti District  | 166          | 1¾           | 169¾        |
| Northern Territories| —          | 247          | 247         |

The mileage of metalled and tarred roads now amounts to 468½ miles. In addition to the 1,8442 miles of motor roads which are under the control of the Public Works Department, there are some 3,900 miles of motorable roads which have been constructed and are maintained by the Chiefs. These roads are all motorable during the dry season and have opened up the country in all directions to motor traffic, and ferries have been installed and bridges built whenever necessary.

The Black Volta rises in the hills near Soukouraba, and the White Volta rises near Quahigouga, both in the French province of Haute Volta. These two rivers converge some 280 miles from the sea on the Ashanti-Northern Territories border and become the River Volta which flows into the sea at Ada. This river is navigable for light draught launches as far as Akuse, and, with the exception of the Krachi rapids, can be used for canoe traffic during certain seasons of the year as far as Yeji. The Ankobra River is navigable for many months of the year by surf-boats and light draught launches for a distance of 50 miles. The Tano, connected with Half Assini, by the main lagoon, and by a tramway, three miles in length, is navigable for light draught launches and canoes as far as Tanosco, a distance of about 60 miles.

Rapids at Sutri prevent this river being further utilised.

The ferry over the River Volta at Senkye is capable of taking the largest cars and lorries, and is now worked by an endless chain driven by a petrol motor placed on the ferry boat. A similar ferry is in operation over the same river at Yeji.

The Government maintains a Motor Transport Service, which operates in centres where vehicles provided by private enterprise are unobtainable or
more costly than a Government-owned fleet. The headquarters is at Accra, with branches at Kumasi and Tamale. The department also handles Government cargo and officials' baggage and stores arriving by sea and arranges the coastwise shipping of Government personnel and stores between ports within the Colony.

In addition to their departmental duties, the officers of the Transport Department assist in carrying out the provisions of the Motor Traffic Ordinance by acting as Testing and Certifying Officers.

Medical Facilities.

Medical Officers are stationed at all the principal centres of the Colony, Ashanti and the Northern Territories. The majority of these officers travel in their districts and give treatment in village dispensaries.

There are 7 European Hospitals in the Gold Coast: 5 in the Colony, 1 in Ashanti, and 1 in the Northern Territories.

There are also 33 African Hospitals: 21 in the Colony, 5 in the Northern Territories, 5 in Ashanti and 2 in Togoland, under British Mandate.

There is in addition one Motor Travelling Dispensary which does valuable work in the mandated area of Togoland.

The Gold Coast Hospital was opened at Accra in October, 1923, and does excellent and steady work and continues to grow in popularity with the native community. It contains over 206 beds and 17 cots, which are nearly always occupied.

In the year 1932-33 it dealt with over 13,000 out-and over 3,300 in-patients, and 580 major operations were performed. At the African Hospital, Kumasi, nearly 14,000 out-and over 2,300 in-patients were treated during the same period.

An up-to-date Maternity Hospital in charge of a Woman Medical Officer, and now containing 28 beds and 24 cots was opened in 1928 at Korle Bu in the immediate vicinity of the Gold Coast Hospital and is highly appreciated. The training of Midwives is carried on here.

In addition to the above there is a Laboratory Services Branch consisting of a central Medical Research Institute situated at Accra, close to the Gold Coast Hospital. Valuable work in Research, Clinical pathology, etc., is carried on by this Branch.

Sanitation.

The Health Branch of the Medical Department is controlled by a Deputy Director of Health Service who is responsible to the Director of Medical and Sanitary Service. Medical Officers of Health are stationed in five of the most important towns in the Colony and in Kumasi in Ashanti. All Medical Officers are charged with public health duties in their respective districts and in the more populous areas are assisted by European Superintending Sanitary Inspectors.

Public health activities are extended into rural areas as far as the available staff will allow. As close a watch as possible is kept on the smaller towns and villages along the main routes. Every encouragement is given to the people to lay-out their villages on open lines and improve the type of houses erected. Particular stress is laid on the protection and improvement of village water supplies. Progress in rural sanitation has been particularly rapid in Ashanti.

Birth and death registration is in force in thirty recognized registration areas, but cannot be applied yet to the Colony as a whole. For the year 1932 a birth rate of 34·7 and a crude death rate of 21·6 were returned. The infantile mortality rate is somewhat high; the figures for the registration areas for the year 1932 was 102. The maternal mortality figures for the year 1932 were returned as 2·4 per centum of the total number of deaths, and 1·5 per centum of the total number of live births.

Infant Welfare and ante-natal welfare centres, in charge of Women Medical Officers, have been established at Kumasi, Accra and Koforidua. At the Accra and Kumasi centres wards are attached. At Sekondi and Cape Coast the centres are under the charge of European Sisters of the Gold Coast Branch of the British Red Cross Society.

Posts and Telegraphs.

The mails exchanged fortnightly between the Gold Coast and other British Colonies on the West Coast and the United Kingdom are carried by the steamers of the British and African Steam Navigation Company and of the African Steamship Company. Mails are exchanged over and with Togoland under French Mandate and with the French Ivory Coast; and direct mails from Hamburg are received fortnightly.

There are 73 Post Offices and 214 Postal Agencies, the distribution being effected principally by rail and motor. When this is impossible a runner service is employed. The rate for letters (1 oz.) within the Empire is 2d., to the United States of America 3d. elsewhere 3d.

There are 4,713 miles of Telegraph Line Wire serving all the principal centres. The rate is 1s. for 12 words, and 1d. per word in excess of 12.

There are 5,474 miles of double wire line and underground cable circuits in use which link up 209 Exchanges and Call Offices throughout the country.

Any passenger or cargo boat entering Takoradi Harbour may be connected to the mainland telephone service and telegraph and phonogram system.

There are about 1,907 telephones, including those in Government Offices, in operation, and extensions to the system are in progress.

Parcel Post despatches are exchanged direct with the United Kingdom and with other British Colonies in West Africa, and the United States of America. Parcels for other countries are forwarded through the United Kingdom. The C.O.D. service from the United Kingdom is extensive.

British Imperial Postal Orders are issued and paid, and an inland and foreign Money Order system is in operation.

A coastal radio-telegraph station at Takoradi transmits radio-telegrams at 9d. per word.

The Eastern Telegraph Company transmits messages by cable to any part of the world from Accra.

Education.

Education in the Gold Coast has hitherto largely been, and is now to a still greater extent, aided and controlled by Government, and all schools are open to inspection by officers of the Education Department. All teachers are registered, and are paid according to an incrementally graded salary scale.

Apart from a large number of non-aided primary schools, there are twenty-five Government schools and 347 Assisted schools in the Colony, Ashanti, and the Northern Territories. The latest figures show that these Government and Assisted Primary Schools have an enrolment of 42,209 pupils, of whom 10,265 are girls. The largest of the Missions working in these territories is the Presbyterian Church with 118 Assisted Schools followed next in order of size by the Ewe Presbyterian Church with 76 Assisted Schools.

In addition to the Government Primary Schools there are the Accra Government Technical School and four Middle Boarding Schools in different parts of the country. They are all boarding schools established by Government for the purpose of giving...
instruction in the more common building and engineering trades with simple literary and technological training.

There are also training schools controlled by the departments concerned, e.g., Posts and Telegraphs, Agriculture and Forestry, and Surveys, where pupils are boarded and trained, being paid a salary while undergoing instruction.

Teachers intended for Government service and certain others receive free board and instruction in the Training Department of the Prince of Wales' College, Achimota.

Teachers are also trained at Wesley College, Kumasi, the Presbyterian Training College at Akropong, Akwapim, the Roman Catholic Training Colleges at Amisano, near Elmina, and at Bla in Togoland under British Mandate.

The training of female teachers by Missions, under conditions of grant similar to those applying to male students at the Mission Colleges, has commenced.

There are two residential Secondary Schools at Cape Coast, both of which are Government aided, one being under the Wesleyan Mission and the other under the English Church Mission Local Authority.

The Roman Catholic, English Church, Wesleyan, and Presbyterian Missions each have residential Girls' Schools in which literary and domestic training is given.

The Prince of Wales' College, Achimota, near Accra, which was opened in January, 1927, is a boarding school open to pupils of all nationalities and religions. It is intended ultimately to provide a complete course of instruction for boys and girls from the Kindergarten stage up to the standard of the London Intermediate Examination. The College also trains teachers for Government and Assisted Schools.

The College is administered by a Council consisting partly of elected and partly of nominated members. It is subsidized by Government.

Currency and Banking.

Prior to 1912 and 1913 the currency consisted chiefly of British gold (comparatively rare), silver and copper. In 1912, subsidiary nickel-bronze coins (½d., ¼d., and ½d. pieces) were introduced, and in 1913 a special silver currency common to all the British West African Colonies of the same weight and fineness as the corresponding British coins. The coins issued are 2s., 1s., 6d., and 3d. pieces. Owing to the great increase in the demand for currency and the difficulties in obtaining adequate supplies, it was found necessary in 1915 to make British Treasury Notes legal tender, and in 1916 special West African Currency Notes were introduced. 20s. and 10s. Notes are the only values now in circulation, 5s. and 1s. Notes having been withdrawn. In 1920, owing to the rapid disappearance of silver coins, an alloy coinage was introduced of the same denominations as the silver coins and silver has now practically been withdrawn from circulation. The special West Africa silver and alloy currency and the West African Currency Notes are under the management of the West African Currency Board and are secured by sterling securities held by the Board. Current British gold and silver coins, British 20s. and 10s. Treasury Notes, West Africa Currency silver and alloy coins, West African Currency Notes, and West Africa nickel-bronze coins are all legal tender.

The Bank of British West Africa, Limited, opened at Accra on the 1st January, 1897, and now has branches at all the principal business centres in the Colony.

The Colonial Bank (now Barclays's Bank (Dominion, Colonial and Overseas) Ltd.) began business at Accra in 1917, and branches have now been opened at other centres. Both Banks have a savings department. In 1888, a Government Savings Bank was established which is now under Post Office management. On 31st December, 1932, the amount to the credit of depositors was 102,653L.

Accounts are kept in sterling.

Population.

The first attempt to take a census was made in 1891, which, however, covered the Colony only. Since then a census has been made at ten-year intervals, viz.:—1901, 1911, 1921 and 1931. Except in 1901, the whole of Ashanti and the Northern Territories have been included. In a country such as the Gold Coast, imperfect communications and lack of education make the holding of a complete census a matter of great difficulty and even now the figures cannot be considered absolutely accurate.

The approximate African population on Census day, 1931, was as follows:—

|                |        |
|----------------|--------|
| The Colony     | 1,545,140 |
| Ashanti       | 582,866  |
| Northern Territories | 717,283 |
| Togoland (under British Mandate) | 275,925 |

Total: 3,121,214

The total number of Non-Africans was returned as 3,182 of whom 104 were "maritime", leaving 3,078 resident in the Colony and its Dependencies. Of these the majority were of British origin. The African Population of some of the chief towns was as follows:—

| Town          | Population |
|---------------|------------|
| Accra         | 59,895     |
| Kumasi        | 36,200     |
| Cape Coast    | 17,685     |
| Keta          | 6,802      |
| Sekondi       | 16,742     |
| Teshi         | 5,715      |
| Winneba       | 10,990     |
| Saltpond      | 6,398      |
| Naswam        | 8,922      |
| Asamankese    | 5,900      |
| Koforidua     | 19,634     |

Industries, Trade and Customs.

The chief products of the Colony are cacao, gold, diamonds and manganese. Palm oil, palm kernels, lumber, kola and copra are also shipped.

The cultivation of cacao was started in Akwapim in 1879, and exports in 1891 realised 4L. Coffee at that time fetched a fair price, and it was not until 1898, when the price for the latter article fell so low as to make its cultivation at any distance from the coast unremunerative, that attention was paid to cacao. Since that year the cacao industry has made rapid strides. In 1900 the value exported was 27,280L, in 1918, 1,796,985L, and in 1920, 10,066,298L. In 1921, although the value fell considerably to 4,764,067L, the quantity of cacao exported exceeded the 1920 export by 8,422 tons. In 1928, 225,007 tons, valued at 11,229,512L, in 1929, 238,068 tons, valued at 9,704,493L, in 1930, 190,580 tons, valued at 6,970,385L, in 1931, 244,097 tons, valued at 5,493,165L, and in 1932, 233,745 tons valued at 5,511,360L, were exported respectively. There is a tax of ½d. of a penny per lb. on cacao exported.

Gold has been exported from the Gold Coast more or less continuously since the discovery of the country by Europeans in the fifteenth century. Up to 1874, however, the industry was almost entirely in the hands of the natives. The first company for gold mining in West Africa was founded in 1874, but did little beyond exploration.
A second company, formed in 1879, engaged in mining operations in the neighbourhood of Tarquah, and from that year the progress of mining enterprise is indicated by the rapid increase in the exports of gold bars, the result of European operations, as compared with those of gold dust, the produce of native mining. In 1899 there was a very remarkable development of the mining industry, which, though checked for a while by the disturbances in Ashanti, received a fresh impetus from the passing of the Concessions Ordinance in 1900, the progress of the railway, and general improvement in means of transport.

Gold is widely diffused throughout the Colony, Ashanti, and some parts of the Northern Territories, in quartz and alluvial deposits, while in Wassaw there is good conglomerate or banket formation which is now reported to extend to the Birrim District in the Eastern Province. The rivers are said to be rich in alluvial deposits. From the year 1903 (the first in which reliable statistics of production were kept) to 1921, the gold produced in the colony and Ashanti amounted to 5,062,267 fine ozs., valued at 21,504,750l. The highest annual production was in 1914, viz.:—410,655 fine ozs., valued at 1,744,498l. In 1923 the value of gold and gold dust exported was 684,815l.; in 1929, 869,863l.; in 1930, 1,055,634l.; in 1931, 1,069,581l.; and in 1932, 1,692,565l. Extensive deposits of Bauxite exist, the most important being situated near Mpraeso in the Kwahu district where a large quantity of high grade ore has been located. In the Eastern Province near Kibi diamonds have been found, and the alluvial is being worked. The diamond exports in 1925 were 77,313 carats, valued at 98,760l.; in 1928, 698,826 carats, valued at 584,279l.; in 1929, 660,536 carats, valued at 584,613l.; in 1930, 861,119 carats, valued at 668,994l.; in 1931, 880,479 carats, valued at 440,924l.; and in 1932, 842,297 carats valued at 636,946l. Small diamonds have also been found in other localities.

Manganese Ore exists in large quantities close to the railway line about 35 miles from the port of Takoradi. Shipments of the Ore reached 338,657 tons in 1925; 419,224 tons, valued at 748,286l. in 1929; 417,490 tons, valued at 823,396l. in 1930; 247,191 tons, valued at 388,963l. in 1931; and in 1932, 50,688 tons, valued at 123,627l.

Modern facilities at the port of Takoradi for shipping large quantities of manganese ore were completed early in 1930.

The trade in products of the oil-palm has suffered severely in the last quarter of a century from the competition of cacao, and except in certain localities, notably the Volta River District, the farming of this kind of produce is neglected.

Native manufactures are insignificant. Cloths are woven in many parts of the country, for the most part of English spun yarn, but in the northern districts occasionally of thread manufactured from the indigenous cotton plant. Narrow strips of four to six inches are woven on a rough hand loom, and stitched together to make clothes of various sizes. Gold and brass are worked by native smiths; canoes are made on the coast rivers; pottery for domestic purposes is made by hand, and wood-carving is done chiefly in Ashanti and Kwahu. Salt is roughly prepared from the lagoons between Accra and Keta and sent up country to the markets of the Northern Territories. Fishing is extensively carried on along the coast, and large quantities of sun-dried fish are sent to the villages and markets of the interior.

Quantities and Values of the following Exports for 1932 were:—

| Quantity | Value |
|----------|-------|
| Cacao    | 233,745 tons | £5,611,360 |
| *Gold (raw)* | 318,431 ozs. | 1,236,691 |
| Manganese Ore | 60,688 tons | 123,627 |
| Diamonds | 842,279 carats | 636,946 |
| Timber   | 299,936 cub. feet | 37,389 |
| *Kola Nuts* | 7,101 cwt. | 6,789 |
| Palm Kernels | 6,999 tons | 60,283 |

The first in value of the imports in 1932 was cotton manufactured piece goods, provisions—all kinds, machinery, motor spirit, cigarettes, artificial silk manufactures, iron and steel manufactures—other kinds, bags and sacks (empty), apparel, motor-cars and lorries, and illuminating oil.

The following tables give particulars of the total values and the percentages of the (1) Import and (2) Export (including Re-export) trade of the Gold Coast Colony according to countries for the year 1932:

(1) IMPORTS.

| Countries of Consignment | Value | Per cent. of total |
|-------------------------|-------|-------------------|
| BRITISH EMPIRE          |       |                   |
| United Kingdom          | 3,273,593 | 58-4              |
| British West Africa     | 123,889 | 2-2               |
| Other British Possessions | 102,795 | 1-8               |
| Total British Empire    | 3,500,277 | 62-4              |
| FOREIGN COUNTRIES       |       |                   |
| United States of America | 714,853 | 12-8              |
| Germany                 | 385,699 | 6-9               |
| Holland                 | 297,996 | 5-4               |
| French Togoland         | 171,924 | 3-0               |
| France                  | 95,938 | 1-7               |
| Other Foreign Countries | 438,532 | 7-8               |
| Total Foreign Countries | 2,104,942 | 37-6              |
| GRAND TOTAL             | 5,605,219 | 100               |

(2) EXPORTS (including Re-exports).

| Countries of Consignment | Value | Per cent. of total |
|-------------------------|-------|-------------------|
| BRITISH EMPIRE          |       |                   |
| United Kingdom          | 3,431,199 | 43-5              |
| British West Africa     | 39,404 | 0-5               |
| Other British Possessions | 97,466 | 1-2               |
| Total British Empire    | 3,568,069 | 45-2              |
| FOREIGN COUNTRIES       |       |                   |
| United States of America | 1,643,461 | 20-8              |
| Germany                 | 1,396,151 | 17-7              |
| Holland                 | 731,687 | 9-3               |
| French Togoland         | 202,884 | 2-6               |
| Italy                   | 96,836 | 1-2               |
| France                  | 82,991 | 1-0               |
| Other Foreign Countries | 170,906 | 2-2               |
| Total Foreign Countries | 4,324,836 | 54-8              |
| GRAND TOTAL             | 7,892,905 | 100               |

* The Information given of rare Gold exported in 1932 and in previous years relates to billion ounces and their estimated value at parity.

The number of fine ounces exported in 1932 was approximately 286,508 and their value, as assessed at the time of shipment, was 1,692,565l.

† Exclusive of 44,360 cwt. of kola nuts, valued at 51,755l., exported from the Northern Territories (Including the Northern Section of Togoland under British Mandate).
The Customs Tariff is non-preferential. The principal cotton Manufactures, artificial silk piece goods, alcoholic liquors, tobacco, timber, certain articles of apparel, milk, cordage and twine, sugar, soap, petrol and kerosene, and a number of other articles are liable to specific duties.

All other articles, unless specifically exempted, are liable to an ad valorem duty of 20% except newspapers which is dutiable at 10%.

There is a surtax of 5% of the rates of duty on all articles except cotton manufactures (excluding apparel, sewing cotton, and unenumerated cotton manufactures) and spirits.

ASHANTI.

Ashanti is inhabited by a large number of confederated tribes, the principal of which are the Bekwaias, Adansis, Kokofus, Nkwantas, Kumasis, Agunas, Mampons, Nautes, Kumawus, Bompatas, Juaibins and Ejisus. Each tribe has its own Head Chief, but from time immemorial the King of Kumasi was recognised as the King paramount of the Confederation.

In 1873 the King of Ashanti invaded the British Protectorate with a large army, and reached Elmina, where he was entirely defeated by the British forces under Colonel (afterwards Sir) Francis Festing. Later in the year Captain (afterwards Sir) John Glover was sent to the eastern districts of the Protectorate to organise the tribes in that quarter, for a flank movement against the Ashanti territory. At the same time Sir Garnet, (afterwards Viscount) Wolseley was despatched to the Gold Coast, with British and West Indian troops, native levies, and some seamen and marines, to operate against the Ashantis, starting from Cape Coast. On the 31st of January, 1874, he came into general engagement with the enemy at Amoasul, where he drove them from their position after desperate resistance. The next four days were employed continuously in fighting, until, on the evening of the 4th of February, the British force entered Kumasi. The King had fled to the bush.

A few days later Sir John Glover also reached Kumasi. On the 13th, messengers sent by the King concluded a peace with Sir Garnet Wolseley at Fomana, which was afterwards signed with a pencil cross by King Kofi. By the Treaty of Fomana, the King of Ashanti renounced all claims on the Protectorate, promised to protect traders, to abandon human sacrifices, and to pay an indemnity of 50,000 ozs. of gold.

In 1894 Prempeh, who was then King of Kumasi, and had successfully fought against the Nkoranzas, who had revolted against his rule, threatened to attack the Atebubus. This attack was averted by the despatch of a force under Sir Francis Scott, and an ultimatum was then sent to Prempeh warning him not to enter British territory, and suggesting that he should acquiesce in the establishment of a Residency at Kumasi. No definite reply to this suggestion could be obtained, and a military expedition accordingly proceeded to Kumasi, to compel compliance with the demands of Her Majesty's Government. The expedition, under the command of Sir Francis Scott, entered Kumasi without resistance, January, 1896. Prempeh made submission, but, failing to comply with the terms dictated, was brought to the coast as a political prisoner and lodged in Elmina Castle, whence he was eventually deported to the Seychelles. A Resident was at the same time installed at Kumasi, and thus commenced an entirely new departure in the relations of the Gold Coast Colony with Ashanti.

In 1900 the Governor visited Kumasi, and was there besieged by the Ashantis, the town being closely invested. Provisions ran short, and a part of the garrison, with the Governor, cut their way out; the rest were relieved by Colonel (afterwards Sir J.) Willcocks, commanding the Ashanti Field Force, on 15th July, after severe fighting. The Ashantis were subsequently thoroughly routed at Abosu.

An Order of the King in Council, dated September 26th, 1901, defined the boundaries of Ashanti, annexed it to His Majesty's Dominions, and provided for its administration under the Governor of the Gold Coast. By a subsequent Order in Council of the 22nd of October, 1906, the boundaries between the Colony and Ashanti, and between Ashanti and the Northern Territories, were re-adjusted and defined, with due regard to tribal lands and natural features.

Ashanti is administered by a Chief Commissioner with an Assistant Chief Commissioner as relieving Officer.

The dependency is divided into the following Districts, each under a District Commissioner with limited powers of jurisdiction:

- Ashanti Akim District.
- Kumasi District.
- Mampong District.
- Obuasi District.
- Sunyani District.
- Wenchi District.

In 1919 a Circuit Judge was appointed for Ashanti. This officer relieves the Chief Commissioner of practically all judicial work except civil cases and matters in which native customary law is applicable. A Police Magistrate exercises limited jurisdiction in the town of Kumasi.

The peaceful relations which, under the auspices of the Gold Coast Government, have existed for many years now between the Ashantis and the neighbouring tribes have been signified by not infrequent petitions emanating from the Gold Coast Colony as well as from Ashanti for the return from exile of Prempeh, the former Chief of Kumasi. The confidence felt by the Government of the Gold Coast in the loyalty of the Ashanti people led to the granting of this request in 1924, and to approval being given in 1926 of his election by his people as Omanhene or Head Chief of the Kumasi tribe.

Prempeh died on the 12th May, 1931 and was succeeded by his nephew Osei Agyeman Prempeh II as Omanhene of Kumasi on the 7th July, 1931.

THE NORTHERN TERRITORIES.

In 1897 the territories to the north of Ashanti were constituted a separate district with the title of "The Northern Territories," and placed in charge of a Commissioner, and a grant-in-aid of the expenditure in the Northern Territories was voted by Parliament.

Major H. P. Northcott was appointed Commissioner and Commandant of these territories, with the rank of Lieutenant-Colonel. The negotiations between the British and French Governments for the settlement of territorial questions in West Africa, which had been suspended in 1896, were
resumed in October, 1897; and on 14th June, 1898, after a period of considerable tension in consequence of the proximity of the British and French forces in the disputed territories, a Convention was signed at Paris with a proviso that it should be ratified within six (subsequently extended to twelve) months. By this Convention the boundary between the Gold Coast and the French Colony of the Ivory Coast, which had only been settled in 1889, as far as the 9th parallel of north latitude, was continued northwards along the course of the Black Volta River to the 11th parallel, and it was then drawn along the 11th parallel with a deflection to the north in the neighbourhood of Mamprusi, until it met the Franco-German boundary of 1897. The effect of the Anglo-French Convention of 14th June, 1898, was to leave Bona, Lobi, and Moshi to France, while Dagati, Wa, Mamprusi, and the southern portion of Grunshi were included in the British sphere.

On 14th November, 1899, an agreement was concluded with Germany for the partition of the "neutral zone." This partition assigned Salaga to Great Britain, and Yendi to Germany, and to the north of the zone gave Mamprusi to the former and Chakosi to the latter.

Survey operations were undertaken by Anglo-French and Anglo-German Commissions during 1901-2, for the delimitation of those portions of the boundaries which had not yet been settled.

By the demarcation on the ground of the Anglo-German boundary between the Trans-Volta District and the adjoining Colony of Togo; of the Anglo-German boundary north of the 9th parallel of north latitude; and of the Anglo-French boundary along the 11th parallel of north latitude, all the frontiers of the Colony, Ashanti and the Northern Territories have now been exactly defined.

Provision was made for the administration of the Northern Territories under the Gold Coast Government by an Order of the King in Council of 26th September, 1901, and by an Administrative Ordinance of January 1st, 1902, the Northern Territories were placed under a Chief Commissioner, and divided into the White Volta, Black Volta, Kintampo and Gonja Districts with headquarters at Gambaga, Wa, Kintampo and Salaga.

The Northern Territories are administered by a Chief Commissioner with an Assistant Chief Commissioner as Relieving Officer.

The dependency is divided into the following districts, each under a District Commissioner with limited powers of jurisdiction:

- Mamprusi District.
- Wa District.
- Lawra-Tumu District.
- Dagomba District.
- Gonja District.

By Order in Council, of the 22nd of October, 1906, the boundaries between the Northern Territories and Ashanti were re-adjusted and defined.

An important step was taken with regard to the Government of this Protectorate by replacing, with effect from the 1st of January, 1907, the former semi-military administration by a staff of Civil District and Assistant District Commissioners, and by establishing new stations. Simultaneously, the 2nd Battalion of the Gold Coast Regiment was disbanded and a force of armed constabulary substituted therefor. In 1929, the Northern Territories Constabulary was disbanded and their duties taken over by the Gold Coast Police.

In 1920 the Circuit Judge, Ashanti, was appointed to exercise in the Northern Territories powers similar to those which he exercises in Ashanti.

TOGOLAND UNDER BRITISH MANDATE.

The former German protectorate of Togoland is situated on the Gulf of Guinea, bounded on the east by Dahomey and on the west by the Gold Coast and its Protectorates. The actual coast-line lies between 1° 45' and 1° 14' W. longitude, the frontiers, however, especially on the west, opening out considerably. The total area is about 36,500 square miles.

Until 1884-85 the majority of the tribes along the littoral and its immediate hinterland, also those adjoining the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast regarded themselves as being under the suzerainty of Great Britain, but by agreements made with the French on the 24th December, 1885, and with the British on the 14th and 28th July, 1886, when provisional frontiers were fixed, German influence was formally recognized by those Powers. Subsequent agreements dated the 23rd July, 1897, and the 14th November, 1899, between Germany and the Governments of France and Great Britain respectively defined the northern frontiers of Togoland.

Immediately upon the outbreak of war between Great Britain and Germany Togoland was invaded by the Gold Coast forces. On the 6th August, 1914, Captain E. B. Barker entered the capital, Lome, under a flag of truce and on the following day that town and the hinterland for a distance of 120 kilometers from the sea were surrendered. On the 8th August Anecho (Petit Popo) was occupied by the French. Operations on a larger scale commenced on the 11th August when Temporary Lieutenant-Colonel F. C. Bryant landed at Lome. After engagements at Agbelufoe and Chra River on the 16th and 24th August respectively the enemy retired on the great wireless station at Kamina, which they destroyed. On the 26th August the Acting-Governor surrendered the Colony unconditionally.

Pour parlers then took place between Sir Hugh Clifford, governor of the Gold Coast, and M. Noufflard, governor of Dahomey, as the result of which an agreement, subsequently ratified by the governments concerned was drawn up. Under this agreement Togoland was provisionally divided into British and French spheres. To the British were allotted the western administrative areas of Lome and Lomeland, Misabohe, Kete-Krachi and Yendi, and to the French Anecho, Atakpame, Sokode and Sansanwe Mangu.

By proclamation dated the 30th September, 1914, civil courts were established under the presidency of political officers seconded from the Gold Coast, appeal lying from the district courts to that of a senior political officer. In the absence of a local criminal code, that of the Gold Coast was introduced as a basis of procedure.

In June, 1915, the office of senior political officer was merged in that of the senior military commander, without prejudice, however, to the civil nature of the court concerned.

Boundary adjustments with the French took place in 1920 in accordance with an agreement signed by Lord Milner and M. Simon on 10th July, 1919. Lome and the whole of the coast were given over to the French, and the British
received additional territory in the interior. The area of the British sphere is 13,041 square miles.

In October, 1921, the Council of the League of Nations approved in principle the arrangements made between the British and French Governments for the division of Togoland in accordance with the agreement of 10th July, 1919, and the application to the territories of the Mandate system; and on 20th July, 1922, after a delay due to negotiations between the United States Government and the Mandatory Powers, the Council confirmed the mandates and defined their terms.*

Togoland under British Mandate is now administered under the provisions of the British Sphere of Togoland Order in Council, 1923, which was issued on the 11th of October, 1923.

Under this instrument, the British Sphere is divided into the Northern Section and the Southern Section. The Northern Section is administered as if it formed part of the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast, and the Southern Section is administered as if it formed part of the Eastern Province of the Gold Coast Colony. The Chief Commissioner's Court of the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast exercises jurisdiction in the Northern Section; and the Supreme Court of the Gold Coast Colony exercises the jurisdiction in the Southern Section.

Subject to the terms of the Mandate, the law for the time being in force in the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast is the law in force in the Northern Section, and the law for the time being in force in the Gold Coast Colony is the law in force in the Southern Section. The Governor of the Gold Coast Colony is empowered to enact Ordinances with respect to the British Sphere as a whole, or with respect to either Section thereof separately. Togoland under British Mandate is not distinguished from the Gold Coast in the statistical returns, but it is beyond question that the revenue which it brings to the Gold Coast is inconsiderable compared with the money expended upon it. It contains no part of the old German railway system, which retains most of the export and import trade of the Southern and richest Section. The towns of Ho and Kpandu are joined to the Gold Coast road system by a road which meets the Volta River at Senchi where there is a power ferry. There is also a direct road from Yendi to Tamale, but the Gold Coast cannot offer prices sufficiently attractive to induce the people to abandon their accustomed market centres on the Lome Railway.

**Gold Coast Statistics.**

| Year | Revenue | Expenditure | British | Total |
|------|---------|-------------|---------|-------|
| 1923-24 | £7,428,834 | £4,106,938 | £1,977,364 | £3,297,869 |
| 1924-25 | £9,711,187 | £4,632,633 | £2,189,097 | £5,671,964 |
| 1925-26 | £11,164,442 | £4,255,126 | £2,490,651 | £4,181,150 |
| 1926-27 | £16,355,321 | £4,328,159 | £2,698,872 | £4,812,222 |
| 1927-28 | £17,217,638 | £4,714,947 | £2,835,491 | £4,896,400 |
| 1928-29 | £17,039,967 | £4,629,294 | £2,891,152 | £5,462,930 |
| 1929-30 | £13,397,324 | £3,932,023 | £2,977,635 | £5,840,387 |
| 1930-31 | £14,499,418 | £3,744,010 | £2,872,358 | £5,267,048 |
| 1931-32 | £12,284,299 | £2,823,752 | £2,183,450 | £4,475,430 |
| 1932-33 | £12,670,786 | £2,673,482 | £1,847,073 | £3,547,305 |

* For text of the British mandate, see Cmd. 1794.
† These figures refer to calendar years.

**Imports.**

| Year | From U.K. | From Colonies | Elsewhere | Total |
|------|-----------|--------------|-----------|-------|
| 1923 | £5,847,795 | £251,722 | £2,349,345 | £8,448,862 |
| 1924 | £5,406,983 | £283,691 | £2,624,560 | £8,315,234 |
| 1925 | £6,363,566 | £240,856 | £3,178,197 | £9,782,619 |
| 1926 | £7,171,461 | £1,141,922 | £3,428,493 | £10,285,876 |
| 1927 | £7,940,917 | £775,872 | £5,053,753 | £13,770,542 |
| 1928 | £6,513,246 | £506,995 | £5,179,804 | £12,200,045 |
| 1929 | £4,757,712 | £398,770 | £4,925,899 | £10,682,381 |
| 1930 | £4,395,108 | £296,834 | £4,261,828 | £8,953,770 |
| 1931 | £2,612,260 | £196,980 | £2,094,634 | £4,803,874 |
| 1932 | £3,273,593 | £226,684 | £2,104,942 | £5,606,219 |

**Exports (including Re-exports).**

| Year | To U.K. | To Colonies | Elsewhere | Total |
|------|---------|-------------|-----------|-------|
| 1923 | £3,058,616 | £347,699 | £5,552,898 | £8,959,213 |
| 1924 | £2,884,926 | £429,509 | £6,600,502 | £9,914,937 |
| 1925 | £3,372,680 | £426,161 | £7,091,422 | £10,890,223 |
| 1926 | £3,570,865 | £437,809 | £8,096,126 | £12,124,800 |
| 1927 | £4,334,135 | £420,590 | £9,595,630 | £14,350,355 |
| 1928 | £4,104,309 | £399,734 | £9,320,832 | £13,824,875 |
| 1929 | £3,615,835 | £416,506 | £6,845,375 | £12,677,716 |
| 1930 | £4,386,843 | £428,324 | £6,472,221 | £11,287,388 |
| 1931 | £4,477,289 | £198,724 | £6,424,607 | £9,300,620 |
| 1932 | £3,431,199 | £136,870 | £4,324,836 | £7,892,906 |

Customs receipts, 1930—£2,140,677.
" " " 1931—£1,316,268.
" " " 1932—£1,689,069.

Governors of the Gold Coast (since 1900).

1900. Sir Matthew Nathan, K.C.M.G.
1904. Sir John P. Rodger, K.C.M.G.
1910. J. J. Thorburn, Esq., C.M.G.
1912. Sir Hugh C. Clifford, K.C.M.G.
1919. Brigadier-General Sir F. Gordon Guggisberg, K.C.M.G., D.S.O., R.E.
1927. Sir Alexander Ransford Slater, K.C.M.G., C.B.E.
1932. Sir Thomas Shenton W. Thomas, K.C.M.G., O.B.E.

Executive Council.

The Governor, President.
The Colonial Secretary.
The Attorney-General.
The Treasurer.
The Director of Medical and Sanitary Services.
The Secretary for Native Affairs.

The Legislative Council is composed of the same members as the Executive Council, with the addition of the following Members:

Ex-Officio Members, The Comptroller of Customs, The Director of Public Works, The General Manager of the Railway, The Commissioner of the Western Province, The Commissioner of the Central Province, The Commissioner of the Eastern Province, The Director of Education, The Director of Agriculture.

Two Nominated Official Members.

Unofficial Members, 6 Provincial Members (elected), Nana Avirebi Acquah III (Omanhene of Winneba); Togbi Sri II, O.B.E. (Awame Fia of Awuna); Nana Sir Ofori Atta, K.B.E. (Omanhene of Akim Abuakwa); Nene M. A. Awah II (Manche of Shai); Nana Tsiwu Darku IX (Omanhene of Asin Atandau); Nana Hima Dekyi XII (Omanhene of Upper Dixcoo).

Elected Mercantile Member, R. Harris.
Nominated Mining Member, J. D. McKay, O.B.E.
Nominated Unofficial Members, F. E. Talland, O.B.E., T. Whitfield, O.B.E., F. V. Booth.
Elected Municipal Members, K. A. Korshah, G. J. Christian, F. V. Nanka-Bruce.

* These figures refer to calendar years.
Clerk of Executive Council, Capt. G. M. Puckridge (acting).
Clerk of Legislative Council, H. H. Malm.

† CIVIL ESTABLISHMENT.

Governor’s Office.
Governor, Sir Thomas Shenton W. Thomas, K.C.M.G., O.B.E., 4,500l., plus 1,600l. duty allowance.
Private Secretary and Aide-de-Camp, Capt. J. L. Lottinga, 450l.
Chief Clerk, H. E. Richter, 300l. by 12l. to 396l.

Colonial Secretary’s Office.
Colonial Secretary, G. A. S. Northcote, C.M.G., 1,800l. and duty allowance, 360l.
Deputy Colonial Secretary, G. C. du Boulay, C.B.E., 1,350l. and duty allowance, 270l.
Senior Assistant Colonial Secretaries, L. W. Wood and R. B. Crabb, 1,050l. and duty allowance, 210l.
Assistant Colonial Secretaries, Major C. O. Butler, Capt. J. V. W. Shaw, Capt. G. M. Puckridge, Scale B., and Secretariat allowance, 120l.; B. P. E. Bulstrode, G. D. Chamberlain, A. D. W. Skinner, Scale B.; J. Welsing and H. H. Malm, 335l. by 15l. to 350l. by 25l. to 600l. by 36l. to 780l.
Secretariat Assistant, A. W. Clark, 335l. by 15l. to 350l. by 25l. to 600l.
Superintendents of Branches, E. W. Adjaye and S. A. Laryea, 300l. by 12l. to 396l.

Secretary for Native Affairs Office.
Secretary for Native Affairs, H. W. Thomas, 1,350l. and 370l. duty allowance.
Assistant Secretary for Native Affairs, J. C. de Graaff Johnson, 335l. by 15l. to 350l. by 25l. to 600l. by 36l. to 780l.

Administrative and Political Service.
Chief Commissioner, Ashanti, F. W. F. Jackson, C.M.G., D.S.O., 1,600l. and duty allowance, 320l.
Chief Commissioner, Northern Territories, W. J. A. Jones, 1,600l. and duty allowance, 320l.
Provincial Commissioners, A. C. D. Johnstone, C. E. Skeene, E. O. Rake, F. W. Applegate, 1,200l. plus 240l. duty allowance.
Deputy Provincial Commissioners, A. F. E. Fieldgate, Paymaster-Cmdr., S. W. Saxton, R.N. (retired), 1,050l. plus 210l. duty allowance.
District Commissioners and Assistant District Commissioners, C. E. E. Cockey, A. F. L. Wilkinson, L. W. Judd, T. R. O. Mangin, Capt. J. C. Warrington, Capt. V. J. Lynch, M.C., Capt. R. C. Sumner, Capt. C. C. Lilley, O.B.E., Lt.-Col. G. H. Gibbs, M.C., Major W. R. Gosling, O.B.E., Paymaster-Lieut. G. P. H. Bewes, Capt. J. R. Dickinson, M.C., C. S. Masser, E. A. Burner, Major J. S. R. Robertson, Capt. St. J. R. Eyre Smith, M.C., G. Hall, B. D. A. Cathie, H. P. Dixon, Capt. P. W. Rutherford, M.C., R. W. Sanderson, J. E. Miller, R. E. Page, Capt. O. F. Ross, G. E. C. Wisdom, D. R. Caruth, E. N. Jones, O. J. Collison, M.C., Capt. J. A. Armstrong, H. G. Ardron, J. P. W. Everhead, Capt. V. W. Dratton, W. H. Beeton, H. C. Ellershaw, G. F. Mackay, P. C. B. Shirreffs, H. V. Wimhurst, D. A. Sutherland, R. W. Woolley, J. A. Prendergast, H. A. Blair, J. K. G. Syme, M. I. H. Mackenzie-Ingles, W. B. Smith, J. Gutch, C. B. A. Darling, Capt. L. J. Mothersill, D. N. Walker, R. G. Cooper, Hon. H. W. Amherst, H. S. Stovold, S. J. Olivier, H. E. Devaux, R. G. Syme, W. A. S. Cole, A. C. Spooner, A. C. Russell, R. E. Walker, G. N. N. Nunn, W. V. Fuller, M. M. Miln, G. E. Barnard, A. J. Loveridge, E. W. Ellison, W. A. R. Walker, A. McAuley, J. C. Guinness, K. C. Tours, Scale B.
Cadets, G. Hadow, E. R. Edmett, A. F. Kerr, C. D. A. Pullan.

Judicial Department.
Chief Justice, Sir G. C. Deane, Kt., 2,000l. and 400l. duty allowance.
Puisne Judges, W. P. Michelin, A. B. Howes, J. M. St. J. Yates, J. Aitken, 1,400l. and 280l. duty allowance each.
Chief Registrar and Sheriff, J. F. St. A. Fawcett, 960l. plus 96l. duty allowance, 140l. personal allowance.
Police Magistrates, C. E. W. Bannerman, Capt. W. Price-Jones, M.C., R. T. Egg, A. Hutton-Mills, Capt. C. B. Pearson, Cmdr. G. E. Cooper, R.N. (retd.), J. R. Gregg. (Four at 720l. by 40l. to 960l., two at 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 840l. plus 72l. seniority allowance from 720l.)

Judiciary Ashanti and Northern Territories.
Circuit Judge, C. M. Barton, 1,200l. and 240l. duty allowance.

Law Officers’ Department.
Attorney-General, J. C. Howard, 1,500l. and 300l. duty allowance.
Solicitor-General, L. E. V. McCarthy, 1,100l. and 220l. duty allowance.
Crown Counsel, A. P. Taylor, E. J. Davies, T. A. Brown, 720l. to 960l., and 72l. seniority allowance.

Printing Office.
Government Printer, C. H. Townley, 630l. by 30l. to 800l., and 72l. seniority allowance.
Superintendents, Government Press, T. Turner and G. Worthington, 540l. by 16l. to 600l.
European Proof Reader, E. Stoddard, 420l. by 15l. to 600l.
Printers’ Engineer, G. L. Hutton, 420l. by 15l. to 600l.

Treasury Department.
Treasurer, R. A. Kelly, 1,350l. and 270l. duty allowance.
Deputy Treasurer, H. Vane Percy, 1,050l. and 210l. duty allowance.
Assistant Treasurers, G. A. D. Davies, Capt. J. H. Stephens, M.C., F. A. C. Jones, J. H. Anderson, A. R. W. Robertson, F. D. MacPhail, Scale A.
Office Superintendent, A. I. Anteson, 300l. by 12l. to 384l., 400l. by 20l. to 500l.
Assistant Accountant, W. F. Hutchison, 300l. by 12l. to 384l., 400l. by 20l. to 500l.

Audit Department.
Auditor, A. S. Cremer, 1,100l., duty allowance, 220l.
Deputy Auditor, E. A. Stoodley, 960l. and duty allowance, 96l.

† In the following particulars of the Civil Establishment:—

Scale A is as follows.—For those appointed before 1st October, 1923; 450l. for three years, then 510l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

For those appointed on or after 1st October, 1923; 450l.; 480l.; 430l.; 450l.; by 30l. to 720l.; by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

Scale B is as follows.—For those appointed before 1st October, 1923; 600l. for three years, then 570l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 960l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

For those appointed on or after 1st October, 1923; 450l.; 480l.; 430l.; 450l.; by 30l. to 720l.; by 40l. to 960l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

Scale C is as follows.—For those appointed before 1st October, 1923; 480l.; by 30l. to 720l.; by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

For those appointed on or after 1st October, 1923; 480l.; for three years, then 510l. by 30l. to 720l.; by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.
Assistant Auditors, R. S. Foster, R. E. Irwin, G. E. L. Lord, R. Fisher (3 vacancies), Scale A.

Chief Audit Clerk, G. Marmon, 335l., by 15l. to 350l., by 25l. to 600l., by 36l. to 780l.

Customs Department.

Comptroller, Capt. A. D. MacKenzie, 1,200l., and 240l. duty allowance.

Assistant Comptroller, Capt. G. Paterson, M.M., 960l. and 96l. duty allowance.

Inspector of Customs, Major H. W. R. Chandler, M.C., 960l. and 96l. duty allowance.

Senior Collectors and Collectors, W. E. Conway, G. J. Freeman, J. McLagan, J. Milne, Capt. C. L. d’Albani, G. H. Barradough, A. G. Simon, C. G. Packwood, Major C. W. Dunn, M.C., H. G. Gowen, A. G. Davidson, F. C. Lander, A. G. Johnson, R. P. M. T. Barrett, M. S. Murphy, A. D. W. Allen, Capt. H. J. Le Mare, Scale A; A. S. Dadzie, and William Quansah, 335l., by 15l. to 350l., by 25l. to 600l., by 36l. to 780l.

Railway and Harbour Department.

General Manager and Harbour Authority, L. M. Smart, 1,600l. and 300l. duty allowance.

Assistant to General Manager, F. J. Bush, 720l. by 40l. to 920l. and 72l. seniority allowance.

Office Assistant, A. F. Kirby, A.M.Inst.T., Scale A, with maximum of 720l.

Chief Engineer, F. V. Macdonald, A.M.I.C.E., 1,060l. and 210l. duty allowance.

District Engineers, J. R. S. Sutherland, A.M.E.I. (Canada), M.S.E., W. J. O. Reeves, J. W. Moran, O.B.E., A.M.I.C.E.I., Scale C.

Assistant Engineers, W. R. Clark, A.M.I.C.E., M.I.Struct.E., A. C. E. Anthony, A.M.I.C.E., L. G. Lloyd, A.M.I.Struct.E., P. A. Oppenheim, M.M., A.M.I.C.E., G. D. Ree, H. W. G. Drummond, Scale C.

Draughtsmen, W. H. Norris, Scale A with maximum of 720l.

Chief Mechanical Engineer, R. T. Kerr, A.M.I.Mech.E., M.I.Loco.E., 1,180l. and 236l. duty allowance.

Assistant Chief Mechanical Engineer, G. S. Simmons, M.I.Mech.E., 960l. and 96l. duty allowance.

Works Manager, J. H. Burt, 720l. by 40l. to 920l. and 72l. seniority allowance.

Running Superintendent, Major C. R. Turner, A.M.I.Mech.E., Scale C.

District Locomotive Superintendents, J. E. Cutforth, A.M.I.Loco.E., W. Venner, A.M.I.Mech.E., A.M.I.Loco.E., Scale C.

Assistant Locomotive Superintendent, A. T. G. Power, Grad. I.Mech.E., Scale C.

Chief Draughtsman and Technical Instructor, R. G. Wickham, A.M.I.Loco.E., Scale C.

Boiler Inspector, G. A. Nork, 600l.

Mechanical Foreman of Wharfs, W. K. Fairclough, 600l.

Electrical Engineer, M. H. Rooney, 720l. by 40l. to 920l. and 72l. seniority allowance.

Assistant Electrical Engineers, A. R. Townsend, D. H. Skinner, E. T. H. Wilkinson, Scale C, with maximum of 720l.

African Assistant Electrical Engineer, E. A. Sackey, 400l. by 25l. to 600l.

Traffic Manager, W. E. Lewis, 1,180l. and 236l. duty allowance.

District Traffic Superintendents, B. Creighton, W. Dickinson, W. Hill, Scale A.

Assistant Traffic Superintendents, A. C. Sykes, N. Blackall, R. J. M. Field, Scale A, G. W. Staig, Scale A with maximum of 720l.

Senior District Station Master (vacant), 500l. by 12l. to 560l.

Chief Accountant, H. Mason, A.M.Inst.T., 1,180l. and 236l. duty allowance.

Senior Accountant, C. B. Hughes, 720l. by 40l. to 920l. and 72l. seniority allowance.

Accountants, G. Henderson, C. O. Parker, 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 800l., 72l. seniority allowance from 720l.

Assistant Accountants, W. A. Hutchinson, J. S. Birt, D. V. Summers, H. G. McElroy, R. A. Braysher, J. O. Frappell, Scale A, with maximum of 720l., W. Mensah, 335l. to 780l.

Stock Verifier (vacant), Scale A, with maximum of 720l.

Chief Storekeeper, J. H. Pryer, 900l. by 40l. to 1,020l. and 100l. duty allowance.

Assistant Chief Storekeeper, T. H. Taylor, 720l. by 40l. to 800l. and 72l. seniority allowance.

Assistant Storekeepers, D. C. Bailey, W. Galloway, Scale A, with maximum of 720l.

Store Accountant, W. Ritchie, Scale A, with maximum of 720l.

Takoradi Harbour.

General Manager and Harbour Authority, L. M. Smart.

Chief Accountant, H. Mason, A.M.Inst.T.

Assistant Accountant, E. Oldham, Scale A, with maximum of 720l.

Chief Storekeeper, J. H. Pryer.

Chief Engineer, F. V. Macdonald, A.M.I.C.E.

Harbour Engineer, W. Hewitt, 1,000l., duty allowance 200l.

Foremen of Works, A. J. Davis, E. Thompson, 500l. by 12l. to 560l., Diving allowance 48l.

Chief Mechanical Engineer, R. T. Kerr, A.M.I.Mech.E., M.I.Loco.E.

Harbour Master, Capt. C. R. Hemans, R.N. (retired), 1,000l., 200l. duty allowance.

Assistant Harbour Master, J. A. Davis, 750l., 72l. seniority allowance.

Senior Pilot, A. E. Adams, 650l.

Pilot, H. G. Veale, 600l.

Posts and Telegraphs Department.

Postmaster-General, E. C. Crewe, 1,200l. and 240l. duty allowance.

Chief Accountant, E. A. Martin, 720l. to 920l., duty allowance 80l.

Assistant Accountants, W. Emmett, and L. C. Saville, Scale A, with maximum of 720l.

Divisional Surveyors, H. Brooks and A. E. Stride; and District Surveyors, J. Rothwell, R. H. Hume, L. P. Wallis and E. A. Pocock, Scale A.

Chief Storekeeper, Capt. R. A. M. Hastings, M.C., Scale A, with maximum of 720l.

Assistant Storekeepers, A. B. Cawthra and H. D. Coe, Scale A, with maximum of 720l.

Telegraph Instructor, J. S. Page, Scale C.

African Assistant Accountant, E. M. Lamptey, 335l. by 15l. to 350l., by 25l. to 600l.

African Assistant District Surveyors, J. E. Holdbrook and A. Mends, 335l. by 15l. to 350l., by 25l. to 600l., by 36l. to 780l.

Telephone Exchange Superintendents, M. T. Wood, W. Murchison, N. P. H. James, and H. Ross, 400l. by 15l. to 430l. by 30l. to 600l.

Engineering Branch.

Superintending Telegraph Engineer, J. L. Shearer, 960l. and 96l. duty allowance.

Assistant Superintending Telegraph Engineer, Capt. W. B. South, 920l. and 92l. duty allowance.

Telegraph Engineers, L. G. M. Keevil, J. Maclin, D. H. Mackay, F. J. Greer, E. T. K. Cann, F. Paltridge and J. R. F. Robertson, Scale C.

For Scales A to C, see footnote on page 306.
THE GOLD COAST.

Telegraph Engineer Workshop and School, A. J. Paul, Scale C.
Chief Mechanic Instructor, O. D. Smart, Scale A, with maximum of 720l.

Medical Department.
Director of Medical and Sanitary Services, D. Duff, M.D., B.Ch., B.A.O., D.P.H., Bar-at-Law, 1,000l., and 320l. duty allowance.
Deputy Director of Medical Service, J. W. Thomson, 1,400l. and 280l. duty allowance.
Assistant Directors of Medical Services, G. H. Gallagher, (one vacancy), 1,300l., and 260l. duty allowance.
Specialists, E. M. Franklin, A. M. MacRea, 1,300l., and 260l. duty allowance.
Senior Medical Officers, S. L. Brohier, A. C. Paterson, W. J. McClintock, N. A. D. Sharp, J. R. Forde, A. W. M. Rae, 1,000l. to 1,150l., with seniority allowance of 100l.
Medical Officers, J. Byrne, J. R. Forde, V. E. Critten, G. F. T. Saunders, F. McKernan, E. M. Fraser, O. G. Wilde, J. Hamilton, F. M. Purcell, G. W. Vaughan, J. H. Owen-Hood, W. N. Greer, O.B.E., M. T. Cassidy, T. V. Fitzpatrick, P. L. Gray, A. J. Hawe, F. S. Paterson, L. D. Quigley, H. S. Townsend, S. G. Harrison, G. M. Minifie, A. M. Gillespie, G. L. Alexander, A. MacPherson, A. Walker, S. Batchelor, M.C., W. S. Thomas, G. C. Edwards, S. A. Maclean, T. W. Stephens, P. B. Wilkinson, R. Ramsay, J. A. K. Fitzgerald, E. R. Gauld (one vacancy), 860l. to 960l., 1,000l. by 50l. to 1,150l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.
Alienist Officer, F. McLagan, 800l. by 40l. to 960l., 1,000l. by 50l. to 1,150l., with seniority allowance of 72l., and staff pay of 150l.
Women Medical Officer, M. K. Lawlor, 660l. to 960l., 1,000l. by 50l. to 1,150l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.
Dental Surgeon, W. H. Donald, 660l. to 720l. to 960l., with seniority allowance of 72l.
African Medical Officers, E. Tagoe, F. Ribeiro, H. Mercer-Ricketts, C. J. S. O. Taylor, 500l. to 720l.
Radiographer, A. Buckner, 600l. by 30l. to 720l.
Assistant Radiographer, E. A. H. Barham, 400l. to 600l.
Analytical Chemists, R. W. Clarke (one vacancy), 720l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l.
Medical Storekeeper, W. J. Phillips, 450l. to 720l.
Secretary, Gold Coast Hospital, L. C. Whitcombe, Scale A, with maximum of 720l.
Dispensing Instructor, W. Dunlin, 600l. by 12l. to 560l.
Matron European Nursing Staff, M. G. Le Bas, 600l., and 120l. duty allowance.
Senior Nursing Sisters, M. Rigney, M. L. Brown, D. J. Taylor, 500l. to 600l., with seniority allowance of 40l.

Health Branch.
Deputy Director of Sanitary Service (vacant), 1,400l. and 280l. duty allowance.
Senior Sanitary Officers, W. M. Howells and D. Lennox, 1,050l. by 50l. to 1,200l., with duty allowance of 210l.
Medical Officers of Health, W. Chisholm, J. F. Southward, W. D. Whamond, V. E. Whitman, J. H. Dobbin, A. D. Cust, G. R. Baxter, K. C. Mackenzie (acting), 800l. by 40l. to 960l., with seniority allowance of 72l., and staff pay of 150l.
Women Medical Officers, M. C. Chapel, B. A. S. Rossell, C. D. Williams, J. G. E. F. Cummins, 660l. by 40l. to 720l. to 960l.; 1,000l. by 50l. to 1,150l.; with seniority allowance of 72l.
Senior Superintendent Sanitary Inspector, P. P. Horn, 450l. to 720l.

Medical Research Institute.
Deputy Director Laboratory Service (in abeyance), 1,300l. with 260l. duty allowance.
Senior Pathologist, G. Robinson, 1,000l. to 1,150l., with seniority allowance of 100l. and staff pay of 150l.
Pathologists, R. D. Reid and W. Thomson, 800l. to 1,150l., with seniority allowance of 72l. and staff pay of 150l.

Animal Health Department.
Principal Veterinary Officer, Capt. J. L. Stewart, M.C., B.Sc., M.R.C.V.S., 960l., and 96l. duty allowance.
Veterinary Officers, W. C. L. Orr, B.Sc., M.R.C.V.S., A. Fulton, M.R.C.V.S., J. MacDonald, M.R.C.V.S., S. Simpson, M.R.C.V.S., 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l. and 72l. seniority allowance from 720l.
Inspector of Livestock, Lieut. A. E. Miller, M.C., 480l. by 30l. to 720l.
Laboratory Assistant, W. H. Heynes, 500l. by 25l. to 600l.

Education Department.
Director of Education, G. Power, 1,350l., duty allowance 270l.
Assistant Director of Education, T. D. Cranston, 1,050l., duty allowance 210l.
Provincial Inspectors and Inspectors of Schools, Captain H. D. Harrison, V. A. Tottey, W. J. D. Wardley, J. S. Dunn, M. G. Smith, H. H. Spafford, J. A. Addo, T. Barton, J. B. Flynn, W. R. Allen, K. J. Dickens, J. Wilson, M. F. G. Wentworth, Miss L. M. Tucker, and Miss E. M. Allen. 13 at Scale C and 2 at 400l. by 25l. to 600l. by 36l. to 780l.

Accra Technical School:
Principal, H. C. Weston, 960l., duty allowance 96l.
European Masters, G. Sutton, T. M. Ritchie, Scale C.

Middle Boarding Schools:
Capt. H. G. Hendrie, R. Horsley, B. D. Burnett, Scale C.

Government Primary Schools:
Headmistress, Miss M. K. Quartey-Papafio, 400l. by 25l. to 600l.

DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE.

Headquarters Staff.
Director, G. G. Auchinleck, M.Sc. (McGill), F.I.C., 1,200l. and 240l. duty allowance.
Deputy Director, H. B. Waters, B.A. (Oxon.), 1,000l. and 200l. duty allowance.
Assistant Director, A. C. Miles (acting), 960l. and 96l. duty allowance.
Accountant and Office Superintendent, J. M. Dunbar, 400l. by 15l. to 430l., 450l. by 30l. to 720l.

Agricultural Staff.
Superintendents and Assistant Superintendents, A. W. Paterson, N.D.A., N.D.D., James Steele, M.C., N.D.A., N.D.D., W. H. Beckett, M.A., Dip.Agric., J. C. Muir, B.Sc., N.D.A., N.D.D., F. A. Robb, B.Sc., N.D.D., B. T. Steemson, B.A., E. M. Cook, Dip. Agric., J. E. Symond, A.I.C.T.A., J. M. Wingate, A.I.C.T.A., J. L. Scott, B.Sc., C. W. J. Line, B.A., A.R.C.S.I., L. J. Packham, A.R.C.S.I., N.D.A., G. Cowan, N.D.A., C.D.A., A.I.C.T.A., C. L. Skidmore, B.Sc., Dip. Agric., A.I.C.T.A., J. T. H. Stein, B.Sc., J. M. Ward, N.D.A., N.D.D., C. W. Lynn, Dip. Agric., James Wright, B.Sc., A.I.C.T.A., Arthur Jones, B.Sc., C. L. Willding-Jones, B.A., 480l., 510l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.
African Assistant Superintendent, E. W. A. B. Sam, B.Sc., 400l. by 25l. to 600l. by 36l. to 780l.

For Scales A to C, see footnote on page 306.
Senior Inspectors of Plants and Produce, W. B. Hudson, E. D. Hill, 800l. by 30l. to 720l.

Inspectors of Plants and Produce, S. T. Phillips, H. E. Green, R. J. T. Hooke, B.A., F. R. B. Mullan, B.A., A. D. T. Montagu, D.P.S.A., Alfred Qvist, U.D.A., N.D.A., E. L. Hay, B.Sc., R. J. W. Grimm, C.D.A., G. R. Spurrell, B.A., J. K. Cox, R.D.A., R.D.D., R. Kinloch, N.D.A., N.D.D., C.D.A., C.D.D., T. G. Strangeways, M.A., W. F. Gwilliam, C.D.A., N.D.A., 480l. by 30l. to 600l.

African Inspectors of Plants and Produce, J. O. Torto, B.So., J. Cofie, B.Sc., 400l. by 25l. to 500l.

Laboratory Staff.

Mycologist, H. A. Dade, A.R.C.S., 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

Entomologist, G. S. Cotterell, A.R.C.S., D.I.C., 600l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

Chemist, M. Greenwood, M.Sc., 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

Botanist, T. L. Williams, B.A., Dip.Agrio., A.I.C.T.A., 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

Training Centre.

Superintendent, H. Nicholas, B.A., 480l. to 510l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

Assistant Superintendent, J. D. Broatch, B.Sc., 480l., 510l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

Forestry Department.

Conservator of Forests (vacant), 1,200l., duty allowance 240l.

Provincial Forest Officers, H. W. Moor, Capt. G. S. Greene, J. A. Wills, Scale C.

Assistant Conservators of Forests, P. G. Arnold, L. C. Rowney, C. Vigne, A. J. Cox, G. M. Tolmie, W. T. S. Brown, F. E. Hughes, G. C. Beavan, I. A. Beveridge, F. J. Lyon, F. G. Harper, D. Kinloch, Scale C.

Mineral Department.

Secretary for Mines, A. T. Roberts, B.Sc., A.M.I.C.E., M.I.M.M., F.G.S., 1,200l., and 240l. duty allowance.

Inspector of Mines, Capt. R. P. Wild, F.G.S., M.Inst.M.M., Scale C.

Inspector of Machinery, P. V. R. Bray, A.M.I.Mech.E., A.M.I.Mar.E., Scale C.

Geological Survey.

Director of Geological Survey, Major N. R. Junner, M.C., D.Sc., D.I.C., M.I.M.M., 1,200l., and duty allowance 240l.

Assistant Director of Geological Survey (vacant), 960l., and duty allowance 96l.

Geologists, W. G. G. Cooper, Ph.D., B.Sc. (Engineering), A.R.C.S., F.G.S., A.I.M.M., D. P. McGregor, B.Sc., 540l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l., plus seniority allowance 72l. from 720l.

Superintendent of Records (London Office), W. T. James.

The Gold Coast Regiment, R.W.A.F.F. (2 Battalions).

Regimental Commander and Inspector of the Local Forces, Colonel H. H. Beattie, 1,200l. and 10s. per day duty pay.

Staff Officer, Captain J. W. A. Hayes, 750l. and 5s. per day duty pay.

Staff Quartermaster, Captain W. M. Harrington, M.C., M.M., 700l. by 25l. to 800l.

O.C. 1st Battalion, Major D. S. Marchant, M.C., 850l. and 5s. per day command pay.

O.C. 2nd Battalion, Major L. C. Heygate, 850l. and 5s. per day command pay.

Second-in-Command, 1st Battalion, Captain G. J. Fletcher, 750l.

Second-in-Command, 2nd Battalion, Captain E. H. Grant, 750l.

Adjutant and Quartermaster, 1st Battalion, Lieutenant H. Wood, 600l. and 5s. per day duty pay.

Adjutant and Quartermaster, 2nd Battalion, Lieutenant G. W. Lathbury, 700l. and 5s. per day duty pay.

Battery Officers, 600l.

Company Commanders, 750l. and 700l.

Company Officers, 800l. and 510l.

The Gold Coast Territorial Force.

Officer Commanding, Lt.-Colonel H. J. L. Cavanaugh.

Adjutant, Lieutenant H. D. Dook, The Manchester Regiment, 600l. and 5s. per day duty pay.

The Gold Coast Defence Force.

Officer Commanding, Lt.-Colonel S. B. Keast, M.C.

Adjutant, Lieutenant H. D. Dook, The Manchester Regiment.

Police Department.

Inspector-General of Police, Lt.-Col. H. W. M. Bamford, C.B.E., M.C., 1,200l. and 240l. duty allowance.

Staff Officer, Major C. T. Williams, O.B.E., Scale A.

Senior Commissioners of Police, Capt. L. S. D. H. Venour, V. E. R. de Carteret, 960l. and 96l. duty allowance.

Commissioners of Police, Criminal Investigation Department, N. S. Mansergh, M.B.E., A. W. G. Moorman, Scale A.

Commissioners and Assistant Commissioners of Police, H. J. O'Connor, Capt. K. W. Thompson, Major F. L. Hamilton, M.C., J. C. Piegrone, M.C., Capt. H. M. Mitchell, M.C., C. E. Duruty, M.C., Capt. P. Eckel, M. L. Fraser, Major B. A. S. Bennett, Capt. D. S. Gowing, J. E. Workman, J. P. Gildea, Capt. C. E. Wingrove, R. Tottenham, G. C. Grand, H. P. Morris, W. A. Govan, Major F. C. Prickett, O.B.E., M.C., S. C. Sinclair, R. A. Jones, M.C., C. J. Pym, Major R. J. A. Betham, Capt. N. G. Maclean, G. E. Gilbey, F. F. W. S. Williams, L. A. Hagen, J. B. Ashmore, E. M. Berkley-Barton, Scale A.

Prisons Department.

Director of Prisons, H. J. L. Cavanaugh, 960l., and 96l. duty allowance.

Senior Prison Superintendent, C. H. Conn, 540l. by 30l. to 720l.

Survey Department.

Surveyor General, J. Clendinning, A.M.I.C.E., 1,200l., plus 240l. duty allowance.

Assistant Surveyor General, Capt. S. C. Saward, M.C., M.M., 960l. and 96l. duty allowance.

Office Assistant and Accountant (vacant), Scale A, maximum 720l.

Record Keeper and Cartographer, F. C. Blake, Scale C.

Chief Draughtsman, G. D. Meredith, Scale C, maximum 800l.

Instructor, Survey School, W. Cutland, Scale C.

Surveyors, C. R. Petty, K. M. Vaughan, G. C. Rogerson, M.C., W. Gemmill, E. W. Kenward, Major E. W. Nesham, Capt. C. L. M. Douet, B.Sc., Capt. A. E. W. Nesbit, M.C., and E. W. W. Brown, Scale C.

African Surveyor, K. Asante, 400l. by 25l. to 600l. by 36l. to 780l.

For Scales A to C, see footnote on page 306.
