CYPRUS

Situation and Area
The island of Cyprus is situated in the easternmost basin of the Mediterranean Sea, with Asia Minor to the north and Syria to the east, at distances of 60 and 41 miles respectively. It lies between 34° 33' and 35° 41' N. latitude, and between 32° 17' and 34° 36' E. longitude. Famagusta, with a harbour able to accommodate vessels up to 23 feet draught, is 295 miles from Egypt, while the port of Larnaca on the southern coast is 258 miles from Port Said, and 1,117 miles from Valetta in Malta.

Its area is 3,572 square miles, equal to Kent, Sussex and Surrey combined. It is the third largest island in the Mediterranean, being only exceeded in size by Sicily and Sardinia. Its greatest length from west-south-west to east-north-east, between Cape Drepanum and Cape Andreas, is about 140 miles, and its greatest breadth from north to south is about 60 miles.

Climate
The mean temperature, as recorded in the screen, for the last 20 years is 66° 7°F. the mean maximum, 78° 6°F. and the mean minimum, 54° 8°F. Highest shade temperature during that time was 111° F.; lowest, 26° F. The average rainfall for last 20 years, was 20-64 inches. The year 1949 had a rainfall of 25-69 inches. Figures for rainfall refer to the whole island. The rainy and cool season is from October to March. The climate is varied, hot and dry in the plains in summer, and damp on the seashore; the climate on the hills inland is bracing and healthy. In winter the temperature rarely falls below freezing point on the plains and is mild on the coast whilst the inland mountains are snow-covered for several weeks.

General Description
The main topographical features of the island are the northern and southern mountain chains, and the great plain of Mesaoria extending between them across the island from the Bay of Morphou to that of Famagusta. The northern range, called the Karpas Mountains, and, towards their western extremity, the Kyrenia Mountains, forms a continuous chain near the northern shore from Cape Andreas to Cape Kormakiti, a distance of about 100 miles. The southern range, which is the more extensive and lofty of the two, occupies the western and south-western portions of the island, and trending thence eastwards along the south coast, terminates in the isolated peak called Stavrovouni about 12 miles west of Larnaca. The highest summit of this range is Mount Troodos, 6,406 feet above the sea level, and on its south-eastern slopes are the summer quarters of the Governor, and some of the principal officials.

The rivers of Cyprus are nearly all mountain torrents, dry in summer. None is navigable. The principal are the Pedicos and the Yialias.

The chief towns are Nicosia, the capital (population within municipal limits, 36,806); Limassol, 24,462; Famagusta, 17,973; Larnaca, 15,364. The last three are ports, Limassol and Larnaca having open roadsteads. At Famagusta, on the east, the harbour and quay space have been considerably enlarged. The inner harbour is dredged over an area of approximately 1,800 feet by 700 feet, to 24 feet at low water (ordinary spring tides), with a channel of approach 250 feet wide and 26 feet deep. The curtain wall, south of Othello's Tower, has been pierced with three arches, giving access from the town to the quay. The quay is faced with a concrete wall 1,750 feet long in 24 feet of water and has road and rail access. Further accommodation for sailing vessels and local craft has been provided by means of a steel jetty, 325 feet long by 20 feet wide, with a depth of 15 feet at low water. The port may be entered in safety both by night and day.

The four towns mentioned are district towns of four of the six administrative districts into which the island is divided, the other two district towns being Klisma-Paphos (5,800) for Paphos District on the south-west, and Kyrenia (2,900) in the district of the same name on the north coast. An ancient harbour for local trade exists at Paphos, which has been dredged sufficiently to enable small vessels to enter and lie in safety. Kyrenia also possesses a small harbour which has some trade with the opposite coast of Karamania (Turkey).

Population
The population (including military, etc.) was returned as follows at the several censuses since the British occupation:

| Year   | Population |
|--------|------------|
| April 1881 | 186,173    |
| April 1891 | 209,960    |
| April 1901 | 237,152    |
| April 1911 | 274,108    |
| April 1921 | 310,715    |
| April 1931 | 347,959    |
| November 1946 | 462,536 |

Population at December 31st, 1949, was estimated at 480,000.

The average density of population at the end of 1949 was 134 persons per square mile. The civilian population included at the 1946 census 361,199 Greek-Cypriots and 80,548 Turkish-Cypriots, the balance being composed of Armenians, Maronites, English and others.

Religion
The major section of the civilian population (80·4 per cent.) are Christians of the Independent Church of Cyprus, speaking Greek as their mother-tongue. The Moslems (17·9 per cent.) are Ottoman Turks.

The Cypriot Church is a branch of and in communion with the Orthodox Eastern Church, but is "autocephalous" (i.e., the Archbishop of Cyprus is not subordinate to any Patriarch). This position of independence it has retained un-
disputed since the 5th century when the Emperor Zeno finally decided against the claims of the Patriarch of Antioch to exercise authority over it.

Christianity was originally introduced into the island by St. Paul and St. Barnabas, the latter of whom, a Cypriot Jew by birth, was martyred at Salamis.

**History**

The history of Cyprus is too long and eventful to be related here except in the briefest outline. Recent excavations have carried knowledge of prehistoric Cyprus back to the Neolithic Age, when the island was already widely populated, and have shown that its mineral wealth was exploited from the Early Bronze Age. In the second millennium B.C. it must have been an important centre for commercial and cultural interchange between the Aegean and the Near East. Greek colonies were established in the twelfth century and Phoenician trading stations were flourishing in the eighth. From the fusion of foreign and indigenous elements arose a series of quasi-independent kingdoms; these were the basis of the political life of the island under its successive rulers down to about 300 B.C. In the 6th century B.C. it passed under the rule of Egypt, but in 525 B.C. it joined Cambyses in his war against the Egyptians and so was absorbed in the Persian Empire. The whole island, with the exception of the town of Amathus, took part in the Ionian revolt in 502 B.C., but the Persians recovered possession in about a year and at the battle of Salamis the fleet of Xerxes included 150 Cypriot ships. At the end of the fifth century the famous Evagoras of Salamis, pursuing a hellenising policy, established his supremacy over the whole island and raised it for a brief period to a position of practical independence, but after his death it again came under the control of Persia. After the battle of the Issus, Cyprus hastened to join Alexander the Great and sent 120 ships to assist him in the siege of Tyre. At the division of Alexander's empire, the possession of Cyprus was disputed by Syria and Egypt, but it eventually passed to the latter. In 58 B.C. it became a Roman province and was for a time joined to Cilicia, during which period it was administered by Cicero. Presented by Antony to Cleopatra, it reverted to Rome on her death, and remained a Roman province until the division of the empire, when it was assigned to the Eastern Emperor. Its proximity to Syria exposed it to the assaults of the Saracens, and it changed hands more than once between the 7th and 10th centuries A.D. It was finally recovered for Byzantium by Nicephorus Phocas in 965, and remained attached to the Eastern Empire until 1184. In that year its Governor, Isaac Comnenus, revolted and declared himself Emperor of Cyprus. Isaac maintained his independence until 1191, when Cyprus was conquered by Richard I of England in revenge for the ill-treatment of the crews of some English ships which had been wrecked on the island. Richard sold the island first to the Order of the Temple and later, when the Templars found the task of government beyond their powers, to Guy de Lusignan, ex-King of Jerusalem. Cyprus was ruled by the Lusignan dynasty from 1192 until 1489, but during that period the Genoese Republic exercised a suzerainty over part of the kingdom, from 1373 until 1464, by holding possession of the principal port of Famagusta. From 1489 until 1571 Cyprus belonged to the Republic of Venice. In the latter year the Turks conquered the island, and retained possession of it until its cession to England in 1878 for administrative purposes.

**British Occupation**

On 4th June, 1878, a convention was signed at Constantinople between the representatives of Her Britannic Majesty and the Sultan of Turkey, by which England engaged to join the Sultan in defending his Asiatic possessions against Russia in certain contingencies, and the Sultan, in order to enable England to make necessary provision for executing her engagements, consented "to assign the island of Cyprus, to be occupied and administered by England." On 1st July an annex to this convention was signed at Constantinople, in explanation of the conditions of the occupation.

On 14th August, 1878, a supplementary agreement was signed, giving to Her Britannic Majesty for the term of the occupation full powers for making laws and conventions for the government of the island in Her Majesty's name, and for the regulation of its commercial and consular relations and affairs, free from the Porte's control.

On the outbreak of war with Turkey in 1914 the island was annexed to the British Crown by Order in Council of 5th November, 1914. By Article 20 of the Treaty of Peace with Turkey, signed at Lausanne on 24th July, 1923, Turkey recognised the annexation.

On 1st May, 1925, by Letters Patent passed under the Great Seal of the United Kingdom, the island was formally made a Colony and the High Commissioner assumed the title of Governor.

**Monuments and Museums**

Neolithic, Bronze Age, Phoenician, Hellenic and Roman antiquities have been found in immense quantities all over Cyprus, and scientific explorations have been conducted in recent years by Swedish, French, American and British expeditions, and, on a smaller scale, by the Government's Antiquities Department. Notable excavated sites are the Neolithic settlement at Khirokitia, the Late Bronze Age town at Engomi, the 5th century B.C. Palace of Vouni, the sanctuary of Apollo and Roman baths and a theatre at Curium. Although a variety of remains of different periods has thus been laid bare, many ancient sites, including Paphos, Salamis, Amathus and Soli await systematic excavations. Salamis possesses the remains of probably the largest market place ever built by the Romans, foreshadowing perhaps the "Emporium of the East" as Famagusta was commonly called in the Middle Ages.

The Cyprus Museum at Nicosia, built as a memorial to Queen Victoria and much added to in recent years, contains a unique collection of Cypriot pottery, sculpture, gold and metal works of art down to the Early Christian period, which was re-arranged during the years 1935–37 in accordance with the most up-to-date methods of display. Smaller collections of medieval objects have been formed in Nicosia, and district museums have been established in Larnaca, Limassol, Famagusta and Paphos. Of the Greek Orthodox churches in use to-day, some date from the Byzantine period and not a few retain their ancient paintings. Notable monuments of the Lusignan Kingdom are the castles of Kyrenia and St. Hilarion and the Abbey of Bellepais, while the superb Gothic cathedrals and churches of Nicosia and Famagusta, in their curious eastern surroundings, attract numerous visitors. These buildings, of the finest type of French medieval art, are singularly well preserved where they were converted into mosques; in other cases they are interesting ruins.
The Venetian republic left few traces of its rule in the island beyond the imposing fortifications of the seaports of Famagusta and Kyrenia. The conservation of this fine series of monuments is now the care of the Antiquities Department which has already done much to make them secure and more attractive to visitors.

The number of ancient monuments in Cyprus now protected by the Antiquities Law of 1935 amounts to 228, of which 87 are Government property. At several of the most important monuments there are resident custodians, and entrance fees are charged to visitors from outside Cyprus.

CONSTITUTION

Up to 12th November, 1931, the Government was regulated by Letters Patent, bearing date 10th March, 1925, providing for the administration of the Colony by a Governor aided by an Executive and a Legislative Council. The Legislature consisted of the Governor, nine official members and 15 elected members, three chosen by the Mohammedan and 12 by the non-Mohammedan voters. After the disturbances which occurred in the autumn of 1931 in various parts of the island those clauses of the Letters Patent, dated 10th March, 1925, which dealt with the constitution of the Legislative Council, were revoked by Letters Patent dated 12th November, 1931, power to legislate being vested in the Governor. There is an Executive Council consisting, at present, of the Governor, the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney-General, the Financial Secretary, the Commissioner of Labour, together with two non-official members.

ADMINISTRATION

The island, for administrative purposes, is divided into six districts, namely, Nicosia, Larnaca, Limassol, Famagusta, Paphos and Kyrenia. In each the Government is represented by a Commissioner. The Commissioner, Nicosia, however, usually administers the district of Kyrenia.

This division (which formed the basis of the original judicial system of the Colony under the Courts Order-in-Council of 1882, but was abandoned under the Order of 1927 in favour of three judicial divisions, each comprising two districts) was re-adopted by the new Courts Law, which came into operation on 1st January, 1936. By this law the courts were reorganised in the light of the experience afforded by the working of the system in force under the Order of 1927, and the reorganisation may be described as a blend of that system with the system obtaining under the Order of 1882.

The law provides for:

(1) A Supreme Court, consisting of a Chief Justice and two or more Puisne Judges, with appellate jurisdiction, both civil and criminal, over the decisions of all other courts, and original jurisdiction as a Colonial Court of Admiralty under the Imperial Act of 1890 and in matrimonial causes, with powers in such causes similar to those of the High Court in England; when hearing appeals the court is constituted by three or two judges, as the Chief Justice may determine; but in criminal appeals leave to appeal is granted or refused absolutely by a single judge. A single judge exercises the original jurisdiction of the court. In civil matters where the amount or value in dispute is £300 or over, an appeal lies from the Supreme Court to His Majesty in Council. The Supreme Court may also in its discretion grant leave to appeal to His Majesty in Council from any other judgment which involves a question of great general or public importance.

(2) Six Assize Courts, one for each district, with unlimited criminal jurisdiction and power to order compensation up to £300. These courts are constituted by a Judge of the Supreme Court sitting with a President of a District Court and a District Judge or with two district judges. This bench of three is nominated by the Chief Justice whenever a sitting is to be held.

(3) Six District Courts, one for each district, consisting of a President and such District Judges and Magistrates (previously called Assistant District Judges) as the Chief Justice may from time to time direct. There are at present three presidents (each in charge of two district courts, namely, Nicosia and Kyrenia, Famagusta and Larnaca, and Limassol and Paphos, respectively), nine district judges and magistrates. The district courts exercise original civil and criminal jurisdiction, the extent of which depends upon the bench constituting the court.

In civil matters (other than those within the original jurisdiction of the Supreme Court) a president and one or two district judges sitting together have unlimited jurisdiction; a president or a district judge sitting alone has jurisdiction up to £200 (which in the case of any President, sitting alone, the Governor may increase to £500), and a magistrate up to £25 (which the Governor may increase to £50). The jurisdiction of a member of the court sitting alone to try an action on the merits is determined by the amount or value actually in dispute between the parties as disclosed at the settlement of issues or upon the pleadings. But any member of the court can in any action, even though beyond his power to try, settle issues, or make an order not disposing of the action on the merits, or give judgment when the defendant fails to appear or admits the claim. A president has also power to hear appeals from decisions of magistrates in actions where the amount in dispute does not exceed £25 (or £50 in case of a magistrate whose jurisdiction has been increased to this amount).

In criminal matters the jurisdiction of a district court is exercised by its members sitting singly, and is of a summary character. A president has power to try any offence punishable with imprisonment up to three years or with fine up to £100 or with both, and may order compensation up to £100; a district judge has power to try any offence punishable with imprisonment up to one year or with fine up to £100 or with both, and may order compensation up to £50; and a magistrate has power to try any offence punishable with imprisonment up to six months or with fine up to £25 or both, and may order compensation up to £25. Subject to these limits of punishment, which the members of the court cannot exceed, a president or a district judge may also try any offence punishable with imprisonment up to five years if the Attorney-General and the person accused consent; a district judge may (in prosecutions conducted by a law officer or a police officer, with his consent) also try certain offences punishable with imprisonment up to three years; and a magistrate may (with like consent in such prosecutions) try a few offences punishable up to three years. In addition, every member of a district court has power to hold a
preliminary enquiry into an offence not summarily triable and commit the accused person for trial by an assize court.

The jurisdiction above described may be exercised over Cypriots and non-Cypriots, but the law expressly states that it does not confer any jurisdiction upon the courts it establishes to hear any matrimonial cause where either party is a member of the Greek-Orthodox Church and the marriage was celebrated in accordance with its rites, or where either party is a member of the Mussulman faith and the marriage was contracted in accordance with the Sheri Law, or to hear any other matter which, under the principles of the Ottoman Law previously in force in the colony was cognisable by an ecclesiastical tribunal, or which is within the jurisdiction of a Mussulman religious tribunal pursuant to any enactment in force for the time being.

The reconstituted courts are to apply the local laws and certain Ottoman legislation specified in the Courts Law, the Common Law and the rules of equity in force in England on 5th November, 1914 (the date of the colony's annexation), in the absence of provision in the local laws, and any statutes of the Imperial Parliament applicable to the colonies in general or to Cyprus in particular save in so far as they may be validly modified or other provision made by local law. The family law of the various religious communities which had received legal recognition under Turkish rule is expressly saved. They are also to apply the English law and rules of evidence in force on the date of the annexation if there is no local provision in that respect. And their practice and procedure shall, in the absence of local provision, be that observed by the courts in England.

As above stated, the jurisdiction conferred by the 1927 Order-in-Council on the Mussulman religious tribunals it created, has been saved. There continue to be three such tribunals—one for Nicosia and Kyrenia, another for Famagusta and Larnaca and the third for Limassol and Paphos—and their jurisdiction is, as before, over persons of the Mussulman faith in matters of marriage, divorce, maintenance in relation thereto, inheritance and succession, wills and their registration, and the registration of vakfiyes. But the Sheri tribunal of appeal created by that order has been abolished by an amending law, which empowers the Supreme Court to hear appeals from those tribunals with, if it so wishes, the Fetva Emini (a Moslem religious dignitary) as assessor.

The strength of the police force is 38 officers and 1,096 men, while the prison service consists of five officers and 133 men and two women. Both services consist of mixed Christians and Moslems.

There are 16 municipalities in Cyprus of which six are town and ten village municipalities.

Municipalities are constituted and their affairs administered under the Municipal Corporation Laws, 1930–1948.

Since 1943 municipal councils are elected bodies. All male persons who have attained the age of 21 and have been residents within the limits of a municipality for two years are qualified electors at a municipal election.

SOCIAL SERVICES

Education

(a) Elementary

A general system of grants-in-aid of elementary schools was established in 1882, and further regulated by various laws up to 1929, when Government assumed the chief responsibility for elementary education. In 1933 the Governor became the central authority for all matters connected with elementary education, including the appointment and discipline of teachers and control of books and curriculum. Teachers' salaries, pensions and gratuities on retirement are paid by the Government, but the provision and maintenance of schools is met from local rates, with assistance from education funds under Government control.

There are separate schools for each religious community, i.e. Greek-Orthodox 80·4 per cent. of the population, Moslem 17·9 per cent., and smaller communities of Armenians, Maronites and Latin Catholics. For each community there is a Board of Education with advisory functions and control over the amounts to be raised by local rates.

Government elementary schools provide a six years' course from the age of six. Education is free and voluntary.

The following are the statistics of schools, teachers and pupils for the school year, 1948–49:

| Religious Community | No. of schools | No. of teachers | No. of pupils |
|---------------------|---------------|----------------|--------------|
| Greek-Orthodox      |               |                |              |
| Boys                | 12            |                |              |
| Girls               | 12            |                |              |
| Mixed               | 460           |                |              |
| Total               | 1,120         |                | 48,209       |
| Moslem              |               |                |              |
| Boys                | 1             |                |              |
| Girls               | 1             |                |              |
| Mixed               | 204           |                |              |
| Total               | 335           |                | 11,166       |
| Maronite            |               |                |              |
| Boys                | 1             |                |              |
| Girls               | 1             |                |              |
| Mixed               | 3             |                |              |
| Total               | 7             |                | 270          |
| Armenian            |               |                |              |
| Latin               |               |                |              |
| Total               |               |                |              |
| Totals              |               |                | 703          |

There are also two English junior schools operating as preparatory schools for boys and girls of English parentage and English-speaking Cypriots.

(b) Secondary

Under the Secondary Education Laws, 1935 and 1936, all schools above the primary standard are required to be registered and open to inspection and all teachers in them are licensed. There are about 42 such schools. Various conditions relating to management, curriculum and teaching conditions are imposed on schools in receipt of grants from Government.

Among the most important schools, are: for Moslems—a boys' Lycee and girls' High School in Nicosia, administered by a governing body constituted under the law, and supported by Government and Evcaf grants and by fees; for Greek-Orthodox—5 Gymnasiums (classical) (1 for boys, 1 for girls, 4 mixed) and two High Schools for girls in the towns, and a Commercial Lyceum at Larnaca, all managed by local committees appointed under the law; high schools in the larger villages, managed by local elected committees; private commercial schools in Nicosia, Famagusta and Limassol, and a commercial school with private endowments at Lemythou; Latin (Catholic)—a boys' school in Nicosia and convents in Nicosia, Larnaca and Limassol; undenominational—the English
School, Nicosia, administered by a Board of Management on behalf of the Governor and now reorganised with a largely English staff; and the two American Academies (for boys and girls at Larnaca, for girls at Nicosia) managed by the Reformed Presbyterian Mission. The Armenian elementary schools have secondary classes attached to them, and there is a secondary Armenian school, the Melkonian Institute. There are also a number of small private schools in towns and villages. Many of the boys' schools admit girls also where there are too few girls to support a separate school.

The total enrolment in secondary schools is 10,087.

The British Council operates British Institutes at Nicosia, Famagusta and Limassol.

(c) Training Colleges

Elementary schoolmasters receive their training at the Teachers' Training College, Morphou. It is situated on the grounds of the Agricultural Department's Central Experimental Farm at Morphou, and includes a practical and theoretical training in agriculture suitable to rural conditions in Cyprus as part of a two-year course in education. Elementary schoolmistresses receive their training in the Mistresses' Training Centre.

(d) Agricultural Education

A Rural Central School for training the sons of farmers in practical agriculture was established in Morphou in 1940. A separate Rural Central School for Turks will be established at Pergamos in 1950.

(e) Juvenile Welfare Services

A Reform School for juvenile delinquents (boys) was established at Lapithos in 1943.

A Welfare Service, including a probation and aftercare service, was introduced in 1945. The total expenditure on education in 1948-49 from all sources (including grants and fees) was £909,548 of which £604,450 was expended from Colonial Revenue.

Information Services

The principal channel between the Government and the people of Cyprus is the Public Information Office which controls the publicity activities of 20 departments and is responsible for official advertising. Its operations include the preparation of press releases (1,900 in 1949), the arrangement of press conferences and press visits (averaging one a fortnight), the editing of official publications such as the Colony's Annual Report, the reception of visiting newspapermen, the showing of films in schools and the answering of inquiries from all over the world.

The P.I.O. issues two magazines, the "Cyprus Review" in English and Greek and "The Countryman", which is published in English, Greek and Turkish for the Agricultural Department.

Two mobile cinema units are maintained. In 1949 they travelled well over 10,000 miles, giving shows of documentary films and newsreels to audiences totalling 45,000 people. British newsreels, distributed by the P.I.O., are seen in all the big cinemas.

Cyprus has not yet a radio station of its own but important Government announcements, and a weekly newsletter prepared by the P.I.O., are broadcast from a Forces Broadcasting Station near Nicosia.

Health

Cyprus is a particularly healthy country, free from dangerous infectious diseases such as cholera, plague and epidemic typhus. The malaria mosquito, formerly widespread, has been eradicated in a campaign that has won world-wide acclaim.

Leishmaniasis, visceral and cutaneous, sandfly fever and infections of the intestinal tract do occur, but not to any great extent.

The figures of vital statistics for the year 1949 are as follows:

- Birth rate per 1,000 of population: 27·81
- Death rate per 1,000 of population: 8·92
- Infant mortality rate per 1,000 live-births: 71·71

The island is divided into twenty-two district and rural medical stations each under a Government medical officer. There are nineteen Government and rural hospitals with 430 beds, i.e. 0·9 beds per 1,000 of population. The accommodation varies from three beds in the small rural hospitals to 160 beds in the Nicosia General Hospital. There are also two sanatoria, one mental hospital, one leper farm, venereal diseases clinics in all main centres, dental clinics, ophthalmic clinics and child welfare centres.

Poor persons, provided they present a certificate of poverty, are entitled to medical advice under the following three classes:

- Class 1. Those who pay nothing.
- Class 2. Those who pay 3 p. per attendance.
- Class 3. Those who pay from 4½ to 9 p. per attendance.

Government doctors make regular visits to the villages, where patients are seen and out-patient treatment is given. There is a health insurance scheme for regular Government employees and their families.

Labour

The Labour Department was created in 1941. In addition to the Commissioner of Labour its staff includes an Assistant Commissioner, a Senior Inspector, six Labour Inspectors and Labour Exchange personnel. The Department's activities comprise inspection and registration of factories and workshops, supervision of the employment of children, young persons and women, shop assistants and hotel employees, conciliation in labour disputes and the handling of matters relating to the Workmen's Compensation Laws. The Department is also responsible for the collection of labour statistics and the compilation of the official retail price index number. There are labour exchanges at Nicosia, Limassol and Larnaca, and a sub-exchange at Famagusta.

Government is assisted by a Labour Advisory Board consisting of equal numbers of representatives of employers and workers. Advisory Committees are attached to the labour exchanges at Nicosia and Limassol.

A revised Trade Unions Law was enacted in 1949.

The Registrar of Trade Unions is responsible for the registration of employers' and workers' associations. There were 113 registered associations at the end of 1949 with an estimated total membership of 13,613. The largest single group was the Pancyprian Labour Federation with 9,447 members. In addition, there are about 1,600 members of unregistered unions of civil servants.
The Inspector of Mines is responsible for the administration of the law relating to safety in mines and quarries.

**COMMUNICATIONS**

The colony's road mileage, excluding Forest Department roads, is as follows:

| Roads Type          | Miles |
|---------------------|-------|
| Commissioners' roads, mostly gravel | 1,657 |
| P.W.D. roads, gravel       | 158   |
| Total, gravel roads        | 1,815 |
| P.W.D. roads, asphalt      | 718   |
| **Grand total**            | **2,533** |

The Cyprus Government Railway of 2 feet 6 inches gauge extended originally from Famagusta harbour to the capital, Nicosia, and then to Morphou and up to the foot-hills of Troodos at Evrykhou.

Owing to uneconomic results the section from Kalokhorion to Evrykhou was taken up and the remaining section Nicosia to Kalokhorion closed to scheduled traffic.

There is no navigable waterway in the island. The main and secondary roads have recently been reconstructed and good roads exist between all important centres. Most villages are connected with these roads by cart roads passable by motor car at most times of the year. There are motor car services between the chief towns of each district. The Famagusta harbour was completed in 1906, and was enlarged in 1932-33 with assistance from the Colonial Development Fund. An extension to the pier at Larnaca with a sheltering arm at the sea end was completed in 1909. The ancient harbour at Paphos and the harbour at Kyrenia are of sufficient depth to admit of their use by the small coasting craft that trade between Egypt, Syria, Asia Minor and Cyprus. There are no Government telegraphs, other than those along the railway. Telecommunication services are conducted by Cable and Wireless, Limited, whose extensive telegraph and telephone network connects the towns and larger villages of the colony. The company's cables from Egypt and Palestine are landed at Larnaca whence the six principal towns are connected by landlines. During the summer season telegraph and telephone offices are open at Pedhousas, Prodromos and Troodos. The company owns and operates the coast station and aeradio station at Larnaca for communication with ships and aircraft respectively. Emergency wireless communication with neighbouring countries is available should the cables become interrupted.

A regular 10-day mail service is maintained between Egypt, Lebanon and Cyprus by a subsidised steamer of the Khedivial Mail Line S.A.E.

Mails are also conveyed to Cyprus and despatched to foreign countries by steamers of the Adriatica Line, American Export Lines, Hellenic Mediterranean Lines Co., Ltd., and the Turkish State Lines.

**Air Mail Service**

An air mail service is operated by the Cyprus Airways Limited as follows:

- Nicosia—Cairo and vice versa, twice weekly.
- Nicosia—Beirut and vice versa, thrice weekly.
- Nicosia—Lydda and vice versa, thrice weekly.
- Nicosia—Ankara—Istanbul and vice versa, once weekly.
- Nicosia—Khartoum and vice versa, once fortnightly (summer season only).
- Nicosia—Bahrain and vice versa, once weekly.
- Nicosia—Athens—Rome—London and vice versa, four times weekly—Connecting with British European Airways at Rome, twice weekly.
- Connecting with British European Airways at Athens, twice weekly.

Aeroplanes of the Hellenic Airlines, Middle East Airlines, Misrair and Turkish State Airways also land in Cyprus and bring mails from Greece, Beirut, Egypt, Turkey and other countries.

Mails are despatched by Misrair to Egypt, by Hellenic Airlines to Rhodes and by Turkish State Airways to Turkey once weekly.

**Shipping**

1,136 steamships and 466 sailing vessels engaged in foreign trade called at Cyprus ports in 1949, as compared with 1,127 and 649, respectively, in 1948.

The regular ten-day mail service was maintained between Egypt, the Lebanon and Cyprus by a subsidized steamer (s.s. "Fouadieh") of the Khedivial Mail Line, S.A.E.

General cargo steamers of the "Conference Lines" (comprising the Ellerman and Papayianni, Moss, Prince, Westcott and Laurence, Furness Withy, Ellerman's Wilson, General Steam Navigation, Johnston Warren, Golden Cross and John Bruce lines), called in turn at approximately half-monthly intervals from British ports via Mediterranean. Some of these steamers have accommodation for passengers, not exceeding twelve in number, and they are a popular means of travel for those who wish to avoid transhipping at an intermediate port between Cyprus and the United Kingdom. The voyage usually lasts from 12 to 14 days.

General cargo steamers of the following companies called at Cyprus at approximately half-monthly intervals on voyages between Continental and Mediterranean ports, having accommodation for a limited number of passengers:

- The Nordenfjeldske Steamship Services (Norwegian) (itinerary including London);
- The Det Forenede Dampskibs-Selskab Aktieselskab (Danish);
- The Royal Netherlands Steamship Company (Dutch);
- The Aktiebolaget Transmarin (Swedish); and
- The Svenska Orient Linien (Swedish).

The following shipping companies ran vessels in the passenger and cargo trade to neighbouring countries, also to Greece, Turkey, Italy and France. Regular calls were made at Cyprus ports every 10 to 22 days, according to itinerary schedules:

- The Adriatica Societa Anonima di Navigazione (Italian);
- The Hellenic Mediterranean Lines, Ltd. (Greek);
- The Kedem Palestine Line, Ltd. (Israeli) (only passengers) (discontinued in October);
- The Turkish State Lines (Turkish).

Cargo ships of the following steamship services called irregularly (usually once every month) at Cyprus ports on voyages in the Mediterranean only:

- The Achille Lauro (Italian);
- The Navierra de Exportation Agricola, S.A. (Spanish);
The Barker & Co. (British);
The Dani & Co. (Italian) (passengers and cargo);
The Ignazio Messina & Co. (Italian);
The Fradelli Delfino (Italian);
The Yugoslavenska Linijska Plovidba (Yugoslavian); and
The Zim Israel Navigation Co., Ltd. (Israeli).

Cargo steamers of the following steamship services called irregularly at Cyprus ports (usually once in every month) on voyages calling at Mediterranean and Red Sea Ports:

- The Adriatica Societa Anonima di Navigazione (Italian);
- The Gilera Maritima S.P.A. (Italian);
- The Luigi Bosca (Italian);
- The Red Sea Navigation Co. (Egyptian);
- The Sandness Steamship Co. (Norwegian); and
- The Michael Xydias (British).

Cargo steamers of the American Export Lines Inc. (U.S.A.) called at Cyprus ports at approximately monthly intervals on voyages via the U.S.A., Mediterranean and Black Sea ports.

Seventeen tankers, belonging to the British Tanker Co., the Anglo-Saxon Petroleum Co., Ltd. and the Standard-Vacuum Co., Ltd., called at Larnaca and discharged 13,756 tons of benzine, 13,669 tons of kerosene, 17,377 tons of gas oil and 5,507 tons of fuel oil.

Several tramp steamers called irregularly for cargoes, whenever sufficient inducement was offering.

Troop ships, comprising the s.s. "Empress of Australia," s.s. "Empire Test," ss. "Empire Comfort" and s.s. "Empire Windrush," called at regular intervals throughout the year on troop movements. Civilian passengers were accepted for voyages to the United Kingdom if accommodation was available.

Approximately 244,710 gross tons of cargo were landed and 564,020 gross tons exported during the year.

11,000 sea passengers entered and 13,100 departed during the year. Out of the passengers entered about 4,000 were summer visitors, a considerable number of them being carried by the Khedivial Mail Line.

Air Services

There are at present six civil air lines operating itineraries between Cyprus and other countries. These are:

| Name | Itinerary |
|------|-----------|
| British Overseas Airways Corporation. | London – Rome – Nicosia – Teheran and vice versa, once a week. |
| Misr Air S.A.E. (Egyptian). | Cairo – Nicosia – Cairo, twice a week. |
| Middle East Airlines (Lebanese). | Beirut – Nicosia – Beirut, three times a week. |
| Hellenic Airlines (Greek). | Prestwick–London–Paris Athens – Rhodes – Nicosia, twice a week. |

Cyprus Airways, Ltd.

| Name | Itinerary |
|------|-----------|
| Nicosia – Cairo – Nicosia, twice a week. |
| Nicosia – Istanbul via Ankara, once a week. |
| Nicosia – Athens, twice a week. |
| Nicosia – Rome via Athens, twice a week. |
| Nicosia – Beirut – Nicosia 3 times a week. |
| Nicosia – Alexandria, once a week. |
| Nicosia – Tel Aviv, 3 times a week. |
| Nicosia – Khartoum via Wadi – Halfa, once every fortnight. |
| Nicosia – Bahrain via Damascus – Baghdad and Kuwait, 3 times every fortnight. |

Turkish State Airlines

| Name | Itinerary |
|------|-----------|
| Istanbul – Ankara – Nicosia – Beirut, once a week. |

In addition to these, charter companies operate a number of flights to Australia, South Africa and other destinations.

2,075 civil aircraft landed in Cyprus, disembarking 9,162 passengers and 142,250 kilograms of goods and emplaning 9,560 passengers and 226,239 kilograms of goods. In addition, 10,392 passengers landed in transit, and 33,152 kilograms of mail were landed and 31,188 kilograms of mail taken off.

All civil aircraft now land at the Nicosia Airport which has developed to one of the main aerial crossroads in the Middle East.

Posts and Telegraphs

The parcels post is established between Cyprus and the United Kingdom and the principal colonies and foreign countries, as well as within the colony.

Money orders and British postal orders are also issued and paid in the colony. "Cash on Delivery" parcels for delivery within the colony are accepted and delivered at the principal post offices. A reciprocal service of "Cash on Delivery" of parcels has been established between Cyprus and the United Kingdom, Egypt and the Sudan.

PUBLIC FINANCE

The principal sources of revenue in Cyprus in 1949 were:

1. Import Duties.
2. Income Tax.
3. Excise on Tobacco, Spirits and Salt.
4. Food and other commodities—Profit on Realization.
5. Stamp Duties.
6. Immovable Property Tax and Registration Fees.

All exemptions formerly enjoyed by foreigners have been abolished.

Grants-in-Aid have been received from the British Government annually since 1897 to relieve the revenue of the Island of the charge which is applied towards meeting the interest on the Ottoman loan, 1855. From 1911–12 the grant was fixed at £50,000 a year, and since 1928 it has been increased to the fixed rate of £92,800 a year. Additional grants in aid of expenses of administration were received as follows:—1942, £200,000,
1944, £500,000, and 1945, £260,000. A contribution of £10,000 a year has been made by the colony since 1928 towards the cost of Imperial Defence.

| Year | Revenue (£) | Expenditure (£) |
|------|------------|-----------------|
| 1940 | 951,485    | 1,145,882       |
| 1941 | 1,101,336  | 1,367,633       |
| 1942 | 1,559,031  | 1,751,184       |
| 1943 | 2,280,159  | 2,156,724       |
| 1944 | 2,989,554  | 3,693,688       |
| 1945 | 3,554,819  | 3,525,410       |
| 1946 | 4,517,132  | 4,001,978       |
| 1947 | 5,121,176  | 4,607,079       |
| 1948 | 5,915,985  | 5,812,952       |
| 1949 | 4,957,844  | 4,595,148       |

Public Debt on 31st December, 1949 was £2,903,492 of this £1,521,463 was re-lent to H.M. Government. The Government's net loan liability in respect of loans raised for expenditure by the Colony was £1,382,029.

Customs Revenue—
1945 : : : 819,154
1946 : : : 1,759,358
1947 : : : 2,739,524
1948 : : : 2,732,418
1949 : : : 2,053,421

Income Tax Revenue—
1945 : : : 536,156
1946 : : : 488,722
1947 : : : 599,954
1948 : : : 967,440
1949 : : : 883,041

Excise Revenue—
1945 : : : 541,149
1946 : : : 494,961
1947 : : : 412,856
1948 : : : 823,502
1949 : : : 832,838

Currency and Banking

All previous proclamations, Regulations, Orders-in-Council and Laws governing Currency Notes and Coinage were consolidated in the Currency Law, 1949. The following coins are legal tender currency: gold, the sovereign; silver, 45, 18, 9, 4½, 3 piastre pieces, limit of tender 540 piastres (nine equal to one shilling); mixed metal, 2, 1 shilling, pieces; mixed metal, cupro-nickel, 1, ½ piastre; copper bronze 1, ½, ¼ piastre; bronze 1, ½ piastre, the limit of tender in the case of copper, bronze or mixed metal coins of denominations not less than 9 piastres or one Cyprus shilling is 540 piastres or sixty Cyprus shillings and, in the case of copper, bronze or mixed metal of denominations of less than 9 piastres or one Cyprus shilling the limit of tender is 27 piastres or three Cyprus shillings (40 paras = 1 piastre). The Accountant-General, as Commissioner of Currency is authorized to provide and issue and re-issue currency notes of the Government, such notes being legal tender for the payment of any amount, and provision is made for the conversion of notes into sterling and vice versa.

* Excluding Grants-in-Aid; including assistance under Colonial Development and Welfare Act.

† Excluding Tribute Payments and share of Cyprus of the Turkish Debt Charge; including expenditure on schemes assisted under Colonial Development and Welfare Act.

at par, through the Crown Agents in London, and for the establishment of a Note Security Fund. Notes of the following denominations are in circulation:—

£5, £1, 10s., 5s., 1s. and 3 piastras.

The main banking facilities of the island are provided by the following institutions:—

The Ottoman Bank, with branches at Nicosia, Larnaca, Limassol, Famagusta, Kyrenia, Paphos, Lefka and Morphou, also at Troodos during the summer season.

Barclays Bank (Dominion, Colonial, and Overseas), with branches at Nicosia, Limassol, Famagusta, Larnaca and an agency at Kyrenia.

The Bank of Athens, with branches at Nicosia, Limassol and Famagusta.

The Ionian Bank, Ltd., with branches at Nicosia, Larnaca, Limassol, Famagusta, Paphos, and a sub-office at Kyrenia.

The Bank of Cyprus, Ltd., with head office at Nicosia, and branches at Larnaca, Famagusta, Paphos, Limassol, Kyrenia, Morphou and Lefka.

The Turkish Bank of Nicosia, Ltd.; the Banque Populaire de Limassol, Ltd.; and the Banque Populaire de Paphos, Ltd.

The Agricultural Bank of Cyprus, Ltd., and the Co-operative Central Bank, Ltd., specialise in agricultural advances through the medium of co-operative credit societies or direct to individuals.

Some Turkish weights and measures are in use. The oke = 2·8 lb. avoirdupois; the pic = 2 feet; and the donum = about one-third acre. A law relating to weights and measures was passed in 1890.

Production and Trade

Cyprus was in ancient times famous for its copper mines, and to-day the principal mineral product is cuprous pyrites, which is mined on a large scale by the Cyprus Mines Corporation near Lefka, with a crushing and concentrating plant at Morphou Bay where steamers call and load copper concentrates and pyrites. Pyrites is also produced at other localities, notably by the Hellenic Mining Company at Kalavasso in the south of the Island. The pyrites from the Kalavasso mine is loaded direct into the holds of ships by a maritime aerial ropeway. Asbestos occurs on Mount Troodos where the Cyprus Asbestos Mines, Ltd., has established quarries and mills for the production of fibre which is transported by aerial ropeway to the port of Limassol for shipment. Chrome iron ore is mined at Troodos by the Cyprus Chrome Co., Ltd. It is transported by aerial ropeway to a crushing and concentrating plant near Kakopetria, the product being sent by road and rail to the port of Famagusta for shipment. Terra umbra (Turkey umber) is mined chiefly in the Larnaca district, and is carried by road to factories situated at Larnaca and Limassol where burnt umber is prepared and exported. Gypsum, of which there are extensive beds in Cyprus, is quarried for local requirements, and there is a small export trade in both crude gypsum and plaster of paris. A factory is being established at Kalavasso for the manufacture of plaster board and it is expected to find a market for its product both locally and in other countries.

The main industry of the Island is agriculture, the principal products being cereals, legumes, carobs, olives, wine, spirits, raisins, cotton,
tobacco, cheese, potatoes, onions, citrus fruits, deciduous fruits, almonds, hazel and other nuts, flax, sumach, cuminseed, aniseed, linseed, silk cocoons, cattle, pigs, mules, donkeys, sheep, poultry and eggs. Other industries are concerned with the manufacture of buttons, artificial teeth, cotton yarn, carob gum, essential oils and perfumery, soap, silk cloth, cigarettes, boots and shoes, laces and embroidery. Although agriculture on the Island taken as a whole is very diversified, it is not especially so as regards individual areas. The type of farming practised in a given area depends on the climatic conditions which range from temperate to semi-tropical and from a low rainfall of less than 12 inches in certain areas of the plains to over 40 inches in some hill districts. The summer months April to October are more or less rainless and the choice and intensification of cropping on the main plains area are greatly restricted by the deficient rainfall and consequent shortage of irrigation water. The formation of a separate Water Supply and Irrigation Department in 1938 has greatly aided the development and use of free flow perennial and spring flowing waters, and has stimulated interest in pumped supplies.

Cyprus wines have been famous from early times and together with spirits and raisins, are now taking a competitive place in foreign countries, where efforts are being made to establish permanent markets. The wine industry was formerly largely of a domestic nature but the installation of modern wineries and technique has led to more uniform products. Before the war there was a steady expansion in the export of citrus fruits which found a ready sale in the United Kingdom and continental markets, especially in Scandinavian countries. During the war citrus exports came practically to a standstill and many owners had to be assisted by loans to maintain their groves. Comparatively few, however, were completely neglected and, with the resumption of large-scale exports in recent seasons, the groves have been brought back into good condition. Since the war, Cyprus citrus fruits have been bought in large quantities by the Ministry of Food for the United Kingdom market and to a lesser extent by Switzerland, Belgium and the Scandinavian countries. The 1949-50 season created a record for quantities exported and the more recently planted grape fruit is now an important crop. Sericulture, which became of considerable importance under war conditions, when all silk was reeled for the Ministry of Supply and there was a demand overseas for Cyprus silkworm eggs, has since reverted to its prewar condition of a cottage industry, supplying local requirements only. A scheme for the improvement of cotton growing is making good progress; the Cotton Law of 1937 gives the Department of Agriculture wide powers for controlling the industry. During the war years a Government cotton spinning mill was erected: this has now been sold to a private company and its operation is continuing.

Although the production of Turkish leaf tobacco flourished during the war the industry is not yet on a sound footing and considerable improvement in the selection, grading and processing of tobacco is necessary if a good export trade is to be maintained. An experienced Tobacco Officer is now engaged in trying to establish the local tobacco industry on a sound basis.

The improvement of agriculture is fostered by the Department of Agriculture and technical assistance and advice are rendered by competent crop and livestock personnel and field staff. The Department of Agriculture carries out investigational work at a stock farm, a mixed crop farm, viticultural, citrus and three deciduous fruit stations which, with a number of nursery gardens and stud stables at selected centres, make improved varieties and strains of livestock and planting material readily available. Four large nurseries for raising grafted olive trees have been established as part of a campaign for increased production of olives and olive oil. In recent years, a vegetable and flower seed export industry has been started under the supervision of the Department of Agriculture and has made substantial progress. The seed is grown by farmers under contract for United Kingdom and other firms and owing to the specially favourable climatic conditions and careful cultural methods, high yields of good quality seed have been obtained, especially of cauliflower and broccoli. There seems to be a promising future for the production of fodder, vegetable and flower seeds for export.

Considerable attention has been given to animal husbandry, and Cyprus is famous for its donkeys and mules for which there is a good export demand. The island is well stocked with sheep and goats and, owing to restrictions on the slaughter of cattle, the number of plough oxen, which was reduced during the war years, is rising again to normal levels. Stud animals of imported and selected local breeds are raised at the Government Stock Farm and made available to stock breeders at the Farm and stud stables, while the breeding of better quality stock receives considerable attention and encouragement. Special steps are being taken to effect improvement in poultry management. The Veterinary Service has successfully eradicated some major animal diseases. Other diseases and parasitic infestations are kept in check by prophylactic measures. A Produce Inspection Service has been developed under the Agricultural Produce Export Law and, by means of special regulations, exercises control over the quality of a considerable number of agricultural exports, ranging from fresh and dried fruit to potatoes and onions.

As a result of detailed ecological studies carried out in 1947-48 by a specially appointed research officer, improved methods of controlling the rat which damages carob and other trees have been introduced.

Damage to crops from the Moroccan locust is kept to a minimum by an annual campaign for its destruction, and a five-year research scheme which is now in progress may, it is hoped, indicate methods of so reducing locust breeding that large scale campaigns may eventually become unnecessary.

With reduced demand from the United Kingdom and increased competition, it has become increasingly difficult to dispose of vine products and with a view to assisting growers, Government instituted a scheme for the disposal of their products and purchased all zivania (grape alcohol) and raisins produced during the year. Although this scheme met with some criticism at the start, it is generally realized that had it not been put into operation vine products would have remained unsold or would have had to be disposed of at give-away prices. Exports included considerable quantities of oranges and grapefruit to Germany for the first time since the war and fair quantities of fresh grapes to Scandinavia and the United Kingdom. The latter shipments were experimental only and may be the fore-runners of an important export trade which would assist the
vine industry in view of the reduced demand for other vine products. The price paid for carobs, although lower than in 1948, gave a fair return to producers. The bumper crop of wheat and barley, which was all bought by Government, brought prosperity to cereal growers. 24,000 tons of barley not needed for local consumption were exported to Israel and Denmark.

The natural forests of Cyprus are typical Mediterranean type of mixed conifer and hardwood species. In former times the forests were very extensive and productive but the needs and habits of an increasing population have placed such pressure on the forests that they have been considerably denuded. The forests have been destroyed in the past by heavy demands for fuel and timber, by excessive goat grazing, disastrous forest fires and consequent soil erosion. The total area of the forests is about 622 square miles or just over 17 per cent. of the total land area of Cyprus. Of this total only about 20 per cent. is well stocked productive forest, the remainder is forest land from which the forest crop has been seriously depleted. In recent years much progress has been made in protecting and improving the forest areas. Goat grazing has to a large extent been removed from the most productive forests and very extensive reafforestation works have been applied to many of the wasted areas. A complete programme is now being applied for the gradual reclamation of all the deforested forest lands. This includes the eradication of all goat grazing, the conversion of all industry and commerce from wood fuel to oil fuel, and the reclamation of hillsides by anti-erosion and reafforestation works. Good progress has already been made over extensive areas and large areas of forest that have been cleared of goat grazing are now making good recovery by natural regeneration. Excessive demands for timber and wood fuel in the past have so impaired the forests that about 60 per cent. of timber has to be imported; in these circumstances Cyprus must continue to be largely dependent upon imported timber for some years to come. Considerable progress has been made in the programme of conversion from wood fuel to oil fuel. Under a Colonial Development Scheme, village fuel plantations are established for every village, which will set aside land for the purpose; this can sometimes be combined with minor reclamation works.

The sponge fisheries in the territorial waters of Cyprus are supervised by the Comptroller of Customs and Excise, who is also the Government Inspector of Fisheries.

The sponges obtained locally are of good quality and the fishing is mostly done by fishers from the Dodecanese Islands. Each sponge-boat fishing with the harpoon or by naked diving pays a licence fee of 10s. and gives up to the Government, as duty in kind, 20 per cent. of the catch. Machine boats pay a licence fee of £1 and 25 per cent. of the catch. Two licences to fish with the harpoon or by naked divers were issued in 1949. 123 okes of sponges were taken, of which 24 okes and 240 drams were the Government share, part of which was sold by retail and part by tender. No machine-boat licences were issued in 1949.

There is a fair amount of fish in Cyprus waters and fishing has recently attracted private individuals and commercial concerns. Three hundred ordinary sailing boats, 20 ordinary sailing boats assisted by small engines and 14 trawlers (12 Cypriot and 2 Italian), occupying about 925 persons, caught 355,212 okes of fish, estimated at £83,315 value, during the year 1949.

The chief imports are wheat, barley, beans and peas, rice, flour, butter substitutes, condensed milk, coffee (raw), fish, edible oils, sugar, leaf tobacco, cigarettes, timber, cotton (raw), pottery, glassware, cement, iron and steel, hardware and cutlery, electrical goods, machinery, wood manufactures, cotton yarns and threads, textiles, apparel, boots and shoes, chemical manure, drugs, paints and colours, benzine, petroleum, lubricating oils, leather, paper, bicycles, motor cars, motor car tyres and stationery; the exports are chiefly animals, barley, cheese, almonds, citrus fruit, raisins, potatoes, wines, spirits, carobs, grape juice, leaf tobacco, wool, cuminseed, hides and skins, artificial teeth, buttons and mining and quarry products, viz., asbestos, chrome ore, copper cement, cupreous concentrates and pyrites.

The customs import duties are mostly on a specific basis. The ad valorem duties vary from 2 to 100 per cent.

A preference is granted to imports from Empire sources.

The total value of imports and exports during 1949 were as follows:

| Imports | £11,013,230 |
|---------|-------------|
| Exports | 8,243,289   |

The percentage of trade with the United Kingdom was as follows:

| Imports from U.K. | £4,863,605 |
|------------------|------------|
| Exports to U.K.  | 1,332,183  |

### Imports

| Country                  | %       |
|--------------------------|---------|
| United Kingdom           | 44·15   |
| Parts of the British Commonwealth | 18·82 |
| United States of America | 6·09    |
| Italy                    | 5·02    |
| Persia                   | 4·63    |
| Holland                  | 4·21    |
| Arabia                   | 2·53    |
| France                   | 1·78    |
| Egypt                    | 1·76    |
| Sweden                   | 1·44    |
| Russia (U.S.S.R.)        | 1·02    |
| Czechoslovakia           | 1·00    |
| Brazil                   | 0·89    |
| Denmark                  | 0·84    |
| Greece                   | 0·82    |
| Austria                  | 0·71    |
| Portugal                 | 0·54    |
| All other countries      | 3·75    |
| **Total**                | **100·00** |

### Exports

| Country                  | %       |
|--------------------------|---------|
| United Kingdom           | 16·16   |
| Parts of the British Commonwealth | 5·63 |
| Germany                  | 16·73   |
| Palestine                | 9·47    |
| United States of America | 9·36    |
| Egypt                    | 7·12    |
| Denmark                  | 6·50    |
| France                   | 6·50    |
| Italy                    | 4·14    |
| Sweden                   | 3·30    |
| Greece                   | 3·25    |
| Syria, including the Lebanon | 3·07 |
| Czechoslovakia           | 2·58    |
| Holland                  | 1·08    |
| Austria                  | 0·70    |
| Iraq                     | 0·68    |
| Brazil                   | 0·52    |
| All other countries (including ships' stores) | 3·21 |
| **Total**                | **100·00** |
ADMINISTRATORS

1878 Maj.-Gen. Sir Garnet (later Field Marshal Visct.) Wolseley, K.P., G.C.B., G.C.M.G.

1879 Colonel (later General Sir) Robert Biddulph G.C.B., G.C.M.G.

1886 Sir H. Bulwer, G.C.M.G.

1892 Sir W. J. Sendall, G.C.M.G.

1898 Sir W. F. Haynes-Smith, K.C.M.G.

HIGH COMMISSIONERS

1900 Sir W. F. Haynes-Smith, K.C.M.G.

1904 Sir C. A. King-Harman, K.C.M.G.

1911 Major Sir H. J. Goold-Adams, G.C.M.G., C.B.

1915 Major Sir J. E. Clauson, K.C.M.G., C.V.O., R.E.

1920 Sir Malcolm Stevenson, K.C.M.G.

GOVERNORS

1925 Sir Malcolm Stevenson, K.C.M.G.

1926 Colonel Sir Ronald Storrs, K.C.M.G., C.B.E.

1932 Sir Edward Stubbs, G.C.M.G.

1933 Sir Herbert Richmond Palmer, K.C.M.G., C.B.E.

1939 Sir William Denis Battershill, K.C.M.G.

1941 Sir Charles Campbell Woolley, O.B.E., M.C.

1947 Rt. Hon. Lord Winster, P.C., K.C.M.G.

1949 Sir Andrew Barkworth Wright, K.C.M.G., C.B.E., M.C.

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL

The Governor, President.
Colonial Secretary.
S. Pavlides, C.M.G., K.C., Attorney-General.
C. J. Thomas, Financial Secretary.
H. E. Chudleigh, Commissioner of Labour.
Additional Members—P. G. Pavlides, C.B.E., M. Halid.
Clerk—A. D. Shepherd.

FOREIGN CONSULAR REPRESENTATIVES

Austria—G. N. Marangos (Hon. Consul).
Belgium—P. Lanitis (Consul).
Denmark—D. N. Demetriou, O.B.E. (Hon. Consul).
Egypt—W. D. El Masri (Consul).
Finland—C. C. Lyssiotis (Hon. Vice-Consul).
France—J. Lapierre, F. Murat, A. Teniere (Consular Agents).
Greece—A. Pappas (Consul-General).
Israel—Yerachmell Yaron (Consul).
Lebanon—J. Hadji Thomas (Consul).
Netherlands—N. P. Lanitis, O.B.E. (Hon. Consul), S. Kanani (Hon. Vice-Consuls).
Norway—G. G. Pierides (Hon. Consul).
Portugal—D. K. Vondiziano (Consular Agent).
Sweden—Z. D. Pierides (Consul).
Switzerland—J. J. Shukuroglou (Hon. Vice-Consul).
Turkey—F. Bayramoglu (Consul), N. H. Terken (Vice-Consul).
United States of America—W. J. Porter (Consul), C. E. Bartch (Vice-Consul).

SHORT SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY

General

A Ten-Year Programme of Development for Cyprus, by Government of Cyprus, Government Printing Office, Nicosia, Cyprus, 1946, 21s.

The Island of Cyprus, An Illustrated Guide and Handbook, compiled and edited by L. & H. A. Mangoian. Mangoian Bros., Nicosia, Cyprus, 1947, 12s. 6d.

Cyprus, Census of Population and Agriculture, 1946, Report and Tables, by D. A. Percival. Crown Agents, Millbank and Government Printing Office, Nicosia, Cyprus (1949), 20s.

The Handbook of Cyprus, by Sir R. Storrs and B. J. O'Brien. Christophers, 1930, 7s. 6d.

History and Antiquities

History of Cyprus, by Sir George Hill. Vol. I: To the Conquest by Richard Lion Heart; Vols. II and III: The Frankish Period 1192-1571. C.U.P., (I) 1940, 25s. (II and III) 1948, £5 5s.

Ancient Cyprus, Its Art and Archaeology, by S. Casson. Methuen, 1937, 8s. 6d.

Historic Cyprus, A Guide to its Towns and Villages, Monasteries and Castles, by Rupert Gunnis. Methuen, 1947 (2nd Edn.), 16s.

A Guide to Cyprus Museum, by P. Dikaios. Government Printing Office, Nicosia, Cyprus, 1947, 3s.

A Short History of Cyprus, by Philip Newman. Longmans Green & Co., 1940 7s. 6d.

A Guide to Cyprus, by Philip Newman. Rustem, Nicosia, Cyprus, 1948, 6s.

Cyprus under the Turks 1571-1878, by H. C. Luke. Millford, 1921, 8s. 6d.

Miscellaneous

Investigations and Developments in Cyprus Agriculture, 1938-1948, by J. McDonald. Government Printing Office, Nicosia, Cyprus, 1949, 5s.

Water Supply in Cyprus, by C. Raeburn. Government Printing Office, Nicosia, Cyprus, 1945, 3s.

CIVIL ESTABLISHMENT

Notes

In addition to the salaries stated, expatriate Officers receive an expatriation allowance at the rate of 15 per cent. of their salary.

* Denotes free quarters, the value of which is taken at 6 per cent. of salary for pension purposes.

GOVERNOR

Governor and Commander-in-Chief—Sir Andrew Barkworth Wright, K.C.M.G., C.B.E., M.C. £3,300 duty allowance £1,200.

ADMINISTRATION

Secretariat

Colonial Secretary—J. Fletcher-Cooke. £1,650.
Financial Secretary—C. J. Thomas, C.M.G. £1,450.
Under-Secretary—H. G. Richards, O.B.E. £1,350
Chief Commissioner—O. R. Arthur. £1,350
Senior Assistant Secretaries—A. H. Dutton. £1,020.
Assistant Secretaries (Administrative Officers)—C. R. C. Donald; W. F. M. Clemens, M.C.; A. F. J. Reddaway; D. A. Shepherd. £480-960.
Controller of Supplies—J. F. Symons. £1,120
Civil Aviation Officer—D. K. Forsdyke. £720-960.
Public Information Officer—H. White, M.B.E. £920.

District Administration

Commissioners—B. J. Weston (Famagusta), M. V. Spurway, O.B.E. (Mil.). (Seconded to C.O.) £1,120.
Administrative Officers—D. A. Percival (seconded to West Indies); I. L. Phillips (Commissioner of Nicosia-Kyrenia); S. W. C. Dunlop (Assistant Commissioner of Limassol); A. S. Aldridge, M.C. (Commissioner of Larnaca); M. N. Davidson (Assistant Commissioner of Paphos). £480-960.
AGRICULTURE

Director of Agriculture—P. C. Chambers. £1,320.
Assistant Director of Agriculture—H. Hirst. £870–£1,020.
Agricultural Officers—G. Corbett; D. K. Jones. £480–960.
Entomologist—H. M. Morris. £480–960.
Soil Conservation Officer—L. J. S. Littlejohn. £720–960.
Chief Veterinary Officer—R. J. Roe, O.B.E. £1,020 and £100 personal allowance.
Veterinary Research Officer—R. W. Crowther. £720–960.
Veterinary Officer—J. G. Ross. £720–960.
Livestock Officer—K. C. Richards. £480–960.

ANTIQUITIES

Director of Antiquities—A. H. S. Megaw. £1,020.

AUDIT

Principal Auditor—A. J. R. Lucas. £1,120.

CIVIL AVIATION

Civil Aviation Officer—D. K. Forsdyke.

CO-OPERATION

Registrar of Co-operative Societies—R. N. Henry, O.B.E. £1,120.

CUSTOMS AND EXCISE

Comptroller of Customs and Excise—W. G. Smithers, M.B.E. £1,120.

CYPRUS GOVERNMENT LONDON OFFICE

Commissioner—S. Ch. Terezopoulos, M.B.E. £1,000.

EDUCATION

Director of Education—Dr. G. F. Sleight, O.B.E. £1,320.
Assistant Director of Education—R. R. Campbell. £870–1,020.
Chief Inspector of Schools—W. T. Hetherington. £720–960.

English School, Nicosia—

Principal—E. G. Jackson. £720–960.
Masters—A. King, T. E. Dorman, T. P. Lightbody, H. F. Zetter; R. R. Oswald; R. Purdy. £480–720.
Master (Physical Training)—R. E. Brown. £480.

Teachers' Training College, Morphou—

Principal—Vacant. £720–960.
Lecturers—C. E. Germanacos, J. C. Hayes, I. M. Williams. £480–720.

FORESTRY

Conservator of Forests—R. R. Waterer, C.B.E. £1,120.
Senior Assistant Conservator of Forests—G. W. Chapman (seconded to British Middle East Office). £870–1,020.
Assistant Conservators of Forests—E. H. Probyn, W. A. Gordon, D. F. Davidson, I. Sidki, H. Michaelides. £480–960.

INLAND REVENUE

Comptroller of Inland Revenue—A. F. Bates. £1,120.

JUDICIAL

Supreme Court

Chief Justice—Sir Edward St. J. Jackson K.C.M.G., K.B.E., K.C. £1,750.
Puisne Judges—G. C. Griffith Williams; M. C. Melissas. £1,320.

District Courts

Presidents—W. H. E. Dupré; M. Zekia; C. Zannetides. £1,000.

LABOUR

Commissioner of Labour—H. E. Chudleigh. £1,120.

LAND REGISTRATION AND SURVEYS

Director—C. Mace, M.B.E. £1,120.
Assistant Director—J. R. G. Harrop. £720–960.

Mines Branch

Inspector of Mines—W. P. James. £720–960.

LEGAL

Attorney-General—Stelios Pavlides, C.M.G., K.C. £1,450.
Solicitor-General—C. G. Tornaritis. £970–1,120.

MEDICAL AND HEALTH

Administration

Director of Medical and Health Services—H. M. Shelley. £1,320.
Assistant Director of Medical and Health Services—A. C. Howard. £970–1,120.

Hospitals

Medical Officer Specialist (Surgeon)—Vacant. £870–1,020.
Medical Officer Specialist (Tuberculosis)—C. E. Bevan. £870–1,020.
Medical Officer Specialist (Physician)—J. E. O'N. Gillespie. £870–1,020.
Medical Officer Specialist (Gynaecologist)—Thomas Thornton. £870–1,020.
District Medical Officers—G. M. Pietroni; M. Theodoulou; C. C. Ioannides. £720–960.
Senior Health Visitor—Vacant. £400–500.*
Senior Matron, Nicosia Hospital—Miss T. Aziz. £480.*
Matrons—Miss L. Muff. £252–360.*
Nursing Sisters—Miss E. H. P. Paterson, Miss J. C. Capewell, Miss C. Beevers, Miss E. Harnett, Miss M. E. Osborn, Miss A. B. Senior, Miss H. E. V. E. Mason; Miss M. Owen. £192–288.*

Research

Analyst—D. Bradwell. £480–960.
Medical Officer Specialist (Pathologist)—H. W. Daukes. £870–1,020.
Medical Officer Specialist (Radiologist)—S. G. Pavlides. £870.

POLICE

Commissioner of Police—J. H. Ashmore. £1,200.
Assistant Commissioners of Police—E. B. Humfrey, F. B. Carter (temporary). £920.
Superintendents and Assistant Superintendents of Police—R. C. Ross-Clunis (seconded to the British Police Mission in Greece), G. B. Viveash, M. A. W. Hook, J. L. Otway, L. W. Whymark, V. P. Birch, D. M. Morgan, A. V. Munir (seconded to Tanganyika), M. Refik. £480–840.

POSTS

Postmaster-General—A. Aziz. £920.

PRISONS

Superintendent of Prisons—J. Irons, O.B.E. (Mil.). £920.
PUBLIC WORKS

Director of Public Works—J. L. Brown. £1,320.
Assistant Director of Public Works—L. F. Weldon. £1,020.

Executive Engineers—L. Stratton, J. Lakerides, W. D. Scott, M.B.E. £720–960.
Works Engineer—P. C. Phylactou, M.B.E. (Mil.). £720–960.
Architect—H. Mackay, M.B.E. (Mil.) (temporary). £960.
Electrical and Mechanical Engineer—H. Bradshaw. £720–960.

RAILWAY

Superintendent of Railway—T. H. Baggaley. £920.

TREASURY

Accountant-General—S. M. Rich. £1,120.
Chief Accountant—R. Stott. £720–960.

WATER SUPPLY AND IRRIGATION

Water Engineer—I. L. Ward. £1,200.
Assistant Water Engineer—D. J. Burdon. £720–960.

