GIBRALTAR

SITUATION AND AREA
Gibraltar is a narrow peninsula running southwards from the south-west coast of Spain, in N. lat. 36° 6' 30", and W. long. 5° 21' 12". It consists of a long, high mountain called "The Rock", and a flat sandy plain to the north of it, raised only a few feet above the level of the sea, called the "North Front". Its greatest elevation is 1,396 feet, its length 2½ miles, and its greatest breadth ¾ of a mile. Its area is 1½ square miles.

CLIMATE
The general climate of Gibraltar is mild and temperate, though somewhat hot and oppressive during the months of July and August. The rainy season lasts from September to May; the annual average rainfall is 35 inches.

GENERAL DESCRIPTION
The promontory forms one side of a bay, called "The Bay of Gibraltar", which is about 4 or 5 miles across and affords good anchorage for shipping. The eastern and northern faces of the Rock form an inaccessible precipice rising abruptly from the sea. At the northern end, between Gibraltar and the Spanish town of La Linea, lies the North Front, on which a landing ground was completed during the course of the war. From the northern end, the Rock runs southward to the ancient site of O'Hara's Tower, from which it slopes gradually till it terminates in a perpendicular cliff about 100 feet high at the water's edge at Europa; these cliffs are continued along the western face to the New Mole, beyond which the Fortress is protected by artificial ramparts. Behind these latter lines lies the larger portion of the town, covering an area of only ¾ by ¼ mile. Between this part of the town and the southern portion is a picturesque public garden called "The Alameda". The civil population of the southern part of the town is confined to the east and south sides of the South mole, the remainder of the southern portion of the Rock being taken up with barracks, hospitals, etc., for the Military and the Navy. The Naval harbour is part of the west side of the Rock. It is formed by three separate moles known as the "North", "Detached", and "South" moles. The North Mole runs westward from Devil's Tongue for about 2,900 feet and then southwards, giving a total length of over a mile. The South Mole projects into the sea for a distance of 3,660 feet in a north-west direction. The Detached Mole, 2,717 feet long, is so situated...
between these two moles as to form a breakwater and leave two means of exit and entrance. The harbour contains a water area of 440 acres. There are three large graving docks for Naval purposes and a small dock which is available for merchant vessels of light draught.

**POPULATION (CIVILIAN)**

| Census, 1921 | 18,540 |
|--------------|--------|
| Census, 1931 | 17,613 |
| Estimated, 1949 | 24,585 |

**RELIGION**

The large majority of the civilian population are Roman Catholics.

**HISTORY**

Gibraltar was known to the ancients as Mons Calpe, one of the Pillars of Hercules, the other being Mount Abyla, or Apes Hill, on the opposite coast of Africa. It was possessed successively by the Phoenicians, the Carthaginians, the Romans, and the Visigoths, but remained uninhabited till the Mohammedan invasion of Spain.

In 711 the Moorish Chief Tarik-Ibn-Zeyad landed on the Rock, and gave it the name of Gibel-Tarik, or Mountain of Tarik, of which the name of Gibraltar is a corruption. It remained in Moorish hands until 1309, when it was seized by the Spaniards. In 1333 it was again taken by the Moors, but was wrested from the Moslem dynasty in 1462 and reverted to the dominion of Spain.

In 1704, during the war of the Spanish succession, it was captured by the British forces under Admiral Sir George Rooke, and was ceded to Great Britain by the Treaty of Utrecht in 1713. The cession was renewed by the Treaty of Versailles in 1783. Many attempts have been made to take Gibraltar, especially during the great siege in 1779-83, when General Eliott (afterwards Lord Heathfield) defended it against the united forces of Spain and France, but all have been unsuccessful and it has remained in British hands since its capture in 1704.

**CONSTITUTION**

The Gibraltar (Legislative Council) Order in Council, 1950, which was made on the 3rd February, 1950, and brought into force later in the year, provides for the establishment of a Legislative Council consisting of the Governor as President, three ex-officio Members, two nominated Members appointed by the Governor and five Elected Members. The ex-officio members are the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney-General and the Financial Secretary. The Order in Council empowers the Governor to make laws for the peace, order and good government of the Colony with the advice and consent of the Council. The Governor possesses the usual reserve of power to pass into law any measure necessary or expedient in his opinion in the interests of public order, public faith or good government (including defence). The Gibraltar Letters Patent, 1950, and the Royal Instructions, dated 28th February, 1950, provide that the Governor shall be advised in the exercise of his powers by an Executive Council consisting of four ex-officio members and three unofficial members. The ex-officio members are the Deputy Fortress Commander, the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney General and the Financial Secretary.

**ADMINISTRATION**

The revenue of the Colony is derived from port dues, the rent of the Crown estate in the town, licence duties and fees and import duties.

The present customs tariff includes import duties on wines, liquors, spirits, including perfumed spirits, and tobacco with Empire preferential rates, and on motor spirit. There is also a tax on coffee.

The management of the drainage, water supply, etc., is in the hands of the City Council, a body which, by legislation enacted in 1945, now contains for the first time in its history a popularly elected majority. The Council's receipts for 1949 were £322,030, its expenditure £332,170 and its debt on 31st December, 1949, £202,559.

**SOCIAL SERVICES**

**Education**

Education has been compulsory since 1917. Government assumed full responsibility for education in the Colony in 1944 on the repatriation of the civil population. A Director of Education has been appointed and fully qualified teachers, both religious and lay, have been recruited from the United Kingdom on Government contracts. There are at present seven secondary and seventeen primary and infants schools in operation with a total number of pupils at 31st December, 1949, of 2,651. Government expenditure on education in 1949 amounted to £47,301 whilst estimated expenditure in 1950 is £52,081.

**Information and Public Relations**

The duties of Public Relations Officer are discharged by the Chief Assistant Secretary.

**Health**

The medical and health services of the Colony include:

(a) The Colonial Hospital, containing 155 beds, for the reception of British and other residents, merchant seamen and all civil emergencies.

(b) The King George V Hospital for diseases of the chest, containing 64 beds.

(c) The Infectious Diseases Hospital for the treatment of small-pox, cholera, plague, and yellow fever, with accommodation for 40 beds.

(d) The Mental Hospital with accommodation for 30 beds.

Other services provided by the Colonial Government are:

- Child welfare service.
- Port health service.
- School medical service.
- School dental service.
- Medical service to the Police and Prison Department.

A General out-patients department at the Colonial Hospital.

Free domiciliary treatment of the poor, by two part-time district medical officers.

Domiciliary treatment of Government servants.

Public vaccination.

Physiotherapy and radiography.

Orthoptic treatment.

The following special clinics are held at the Colonial Hospital:

- Antenatal clinic.
- Clinic for diseases of the eye.
- Clinic for diseases of the ear, nose and throat.
- Orthopaedic and fractures clinic.
- Dental clinic.
- Gynaecological and post natal clinic.
- Diabetic clinic.
- Chest clinic.
Labour and Welfare

The Department of Labour and Welfare was established in 1948. The senior staff consists of the Director of Labour and Welfare, Assistant Director of Labour and Welfare, Employment Exchange Manager, Executive Officer for Resettlement and two Welfare Officers.

The Resettlement section of the Department, having dealt with the repatriation to Gibraltar of some 16,000 persons who had been evacuated during the war, is now primarily concerned with rehousing. In 1949 it rehoused 495 families, totalling 2,307 persons.

The Employment Exchanges and Registration Ordinance No. 10 of 1949, which was brought into force on 1st January, 1950, gives statutory effect to the establishment of the Employment Exchange and provides for the registration of workmen and the regulation of the employment of aliens. The Employment Exchanges and Registration (Amendment) Ordinance No. 20 of 1950 amends the principal Ordinance to make clear the position of persons employed as workmen under the Crown. The Employment Exchanges and Registration Regulations 1949, made under section 11 of the principal Ordinance, regulate and prescribe the powers and duties of Managers of employment exchanges and the obligations of registered persons and employers. A Workmen's Compensation Ordinance, based substantially on the National Insurance (Industrial Injuries) Act, 1946, is under preparation.

The policy of full employment for British subjects initiated in 1946, has been successfully maintained and the average unemployment amongst male British subjects was less than 0·4 per cent. Following the coming into force of the Employment Exchanges and Registration Ordinance some 18,200 persons defined as workmen within the meaning of the Ordinance were registered and issued with employment cards during the first quarter of 1950. An unusual feature of the composition of this labour force is that it includes over 11,700 Spaniards who reside in the adjacent Spanish territory and enter and leave the Colony daily.

Towards the end of 1949 progress towards completion of the Government permanent housing programme and other projects resulted in a diminution in the total labour force employed in the Colony by approximately 1,500 men, the majority of whom were Spaniards.

Industrial employees of the Colonial Government, City Council and local Service Departments continued to work the five day week of 44 hours which was introduced in 1947. The lead of the official employers in so shortening the working week has not been generally followed by private industrial employers, where the normal working week continues to be of 48 hours. Shop assistants worked a maximum of 48 hours per week in accordance with the provisions of the Shop Hours (Amendment) Ordinance, 1949. Persons employed in hotels, and catering services outside the provisions of the Shop Hours Ordinance worked 48–56 hours per week; although in a number of cases it was observed that trade union representations has secured a shortening of the working week in these trades.

There was little systematic working of overtime by official employees. Overtime worked on week days was normally paid for at time and a half and work done on Sundays and statutory holidays was paid at double time.

The general wage structure (a standard wage plus cost of living allowance) for employees of the Government and Service Departments remained unchanged during 1949. Owing to the rise in the cost of living due to the devaluation of sterling, the cost of living allowance was increased from 32s. to 36s. per week in the case of Gibraltarians and from 16s. to 18s. per week in the case of aliens, with effect from the 3rd April, 1950. Basic wage-rates remained at their previous level with a minimum of 40s. per week for adult unskilled workers whilst skilled workers received 51s.–63s. per week with the addition in each case of the approved cost of living allowance specified above.

There were 11 trade unions registered under the Trade Unions and Trade Disputes Ordinance, 1947, with an approximate aggregate membership of 5,000. Local trade unions were active and submitted claims covering the wide field affecting terms and conditions of employment of both industrial and clerical grades of employees. There were no strikes during 1949 and industrial relations continued to be generally good.

A two-day strike occurred in January, 1950, which involved some 100 stevedores and cargo labourers employed in the Commercial Port. This followed the rejection of the claim for higher wages which had been lodged by the men concerned without the knowledge and support of their union, which had an agreement with the employers concerned providing machinery for wage negotiations. The union persuaded the strikers to resume work pending consideration of the claim in accordance with the terms of the agreement.

Conditions of employment are co-ordinated by the Standing Wages Committee presided over by the Head of the Labour and Welfare Department and consisting of representatives of each of the Service Departments, the City Council and the Chamber of Commerce.

Computations of the official cost of living index are made monthly. The index reflects the changes in the cost of living for an adult unskilled worker earning 72s. per week and supporting a wife and three dependent children under 15 years of age. The index remained stable during the first three-quarters of the year at 184 (July, 1939 = 100). After the devaluation of sterling, the index rose to 199 in May, 1950.

The public assistance scheme introduced in 1946, provides financial aid to indigent or disabled persons, as well as to the aged and unemployed. Statistics are being compiled on which to base unemployment and old age pensions legislation.

Communications

Roads

The Colony's roads are vested by law in the City Council, which is responsible for their upkeep. There are no railways or tramways in Gibraltar.

Shipping

Owing to its geographical position, Gibraltar is extensively used as a port of call and a coaling station by vessels of every nationality. The voyage between Gibraltar and the United Kingdom takes about four and a half days.

There is a daily steamer service between Gibraltar and the town of Algeciras on the opposite side of the Bay as well as a daily service with Tangier during the summer months, and a thrice weekly service during the winter months.
Air

British European Airways operate six services a week between Gibraltar and the United Kingdom via Madrid and Bordeaux.

Gibraltar Airways operate a daily service between Gibraltar and Tangier (four flights a day).

Postal

Air mail correspondence is received from and despatched to the United Kingdom six times a week. Transmission time is two days.

Ordinary correspondence is received from and despatched to the United Kingdom by the overland mail service. Time in transit averages 4 days.

Air mail services exist to most countries and facilities are being extended as world conditions improve.

A daily service is maintained with the continent of Europe and North Africa.

Telegraphs

The Government land lines connecting Gibraltar with Spain are worked by Cable & Wireless, Ltd., who have a station at Gibraltar. Telegrams are accepted for all parts of the world.

Telephones

The telephone system is under the control of the City Council. Telephone communication is at present restricted to the United Kingdom, Spain, Portugal, Spanish Morocco and Tangier.

The local Naval and Military departments have their own lines which are connected with the City Council scheme.

Public Revenue and Expenditure

| Year | Revenue | Expenditure |
|------|---------|-------------|
| 1940 | £328,486 | £274,730    |
| 1941 | £376,481 | £167,614    |
| 1942 | £610,767 | £792,543    |
| 1943 | £505,603 | £313,316    |
| 1944 | £532,067 | £433,348    |
| 1945 | £510,009 | £469,191    |
| 1946 | £545,325 | £751,630    |
| 1947 | £1,389,375* | £912,856 |
| 1948 | £681,580 | £652,755†   |
| 1949 | £1,021,270 | £1,236,565§ |

* Includes £850,000 interest-free loan to H.M. Government repaid in 1947.

† Excludes expenditure of £701,380 on Public Housing financed from Loan Funds in 1948.

§ Excludes expenditure of £343,402 on Public Housing financed from Loan Funds in 1949.

The customs revenue in 1949 was £262,173.

The Colony has a public debt of £836,375.

Currency and Banking

Local Government notes and United Kingdom silver and copper coinage are legal tender in the Colony.

Colonial Government currency notes were in circulation to the value of £761,515 at 31st December, 1949.

The issue is governed by the Currency Note Ordinance and is of the following denominations:

- £5
- £1
- 10s.

There are three private banks, which offer all normal banking facilities, viz.:

Barclays Bank (Dominion, Colonial & Overseas). Head Office: 54, Lombard Street, London, E.C.3.

The Crédit Foncier d'Algérie et de Tunisie Head Office: 43, Rue Cambon, Paris (1er)

London Branch: 62, Bishopsgate, E.C.2.

A. L. Galliano of Gibraltar.

A Government Savings Bank was founded in 1882. On 31st December, 1949, deposits by 10,895 depositors amounted to £993,555.

Governors, Lieutenant-Governors, and Commandants of the Fortress of Gibraltar since its acquisition by the English.

1704 H.S.H. Prince George of Hesse-Darmstadt.
1705 Major-Gen. Ramos.
1706 Colonel The Hon. R. Eliot.
1706 Lt.-Gen. David, Earl of Portmore.
1711 General Stanwix.
1713 Colonel Congreve.
1716 Colonel Cotton.
1719 Lt.-Gen. Bowes.
1719 Major Elrington.
1720 Brigadier-Gen. Kane.
1722 General Hargrave.
1727 Brigadier-Gen. Clayton.
1730 Lt.-Gen. T. Sabine.
1739 Lt.-Gen. Columbine.
1749 Lt.-Gen. Sir H. Bland.
1751 Lord George Beauclerk.
1752 Colonel The Hon. Herbert.
1754 Major-Gen. Braddock.
1755 Lt.-Gen. Fowkes.
1756 Lt.-Gen. J. Lord Tyrawley.
1757 Major-Gen. W. Earl of Panmure.
1758 Major-Gen. W. Earl of Home.
1761 Major-Gen. Parslow.
1761 Colonel Tovey.
1762 Lt.-Gen. Hon. E. Cornwallis.
1766 Major-Gen. Irwine.
1769 Major-Gen. R. Boyd.
1776 Lt.-Gen. Sir G. A. Elliott, K.C.B., Baron Heathfield of Gibraltar.
1784 Major-Gen. C. O'Hara.
1790 Lt.-Gen. Sir R. Boyd.
1794 General Sir H. Clinton, K.C.B.
1794 General Rainsford
1795 General C. O'Hara.
1801 Major-Gen. Sir T. Trigge, K.B.
1802 H.R.H. the Duke of Kent, K.G.
1802 Major-Gen. Barnett.
1804 Lt.-Gen. the Hon. R. E. Fox.
1806 Lt.-Gen. Sir H. Dalrymple, K.C.B.
1806 Major-Gen. Drummond.
1809 General Sir J. Cradock, K.C.B.
1810 Lt.-Gen. Sir C. Campbell, K.C.B.
1814 Lt.-Gen. Sir G. Don, G.C.B.
1814 Major-Gen. Smith.
1820 Gen. J. Pitt Earl of Chatham, K.G.
1831 Lt.-Gen. Sir W. Houston, G.C.M.G.
1835 Major-Gen. Sir A. Woodford, K.C.B., G.C.M.G.
1843 General Sir R. T. Wilson.
1848 Major-Gen. Sir R. W. Gardiner, K.C.B., K.C.H.
1855 Lt.-Gen. Sir J. Fergusson, G.C.B.
1859 Lt.-Gen. Sir W. J. Codrington, K.C.B.
1865 Lt.-Gen. Sir R. Airey, K.C.B.
1870 General Sir W. F. Williams of Kars, Bart. G.C.B.
1876 General Lord Napier of Magdala, G.C.B., G.C.S.I.

1883 General Sir J. M. Adye, G.C.B.

1886 General Sir A. E. Hardinge, K.C.B., C.I.E.

1890 General Sir L. C. Smyth, K.C.B., K.C.M.G.

1891 General Sir L. Nicholson, K.C.B., R.E.

1893 General Sir R. Biddulph, G.C.B., G.C.M.G., R.A.

1900 Field-Marshal Sir G. S. White, V.C., G.C.B., O.M., G.C.S.I., G.C.M.G., G.C.I.E., G.C.V.O.

1905 General Sir F. W. E. F. Forestier Walker, G.C.M.G., K.C.B.

1910 General Sir Archibald Hunter, G.C.B., G.C.V.O., D.S.O.

1913 Lt.-Gen. Sir H. G. S. Miles, G.C.B., G.C.M.G., G.B.E., C.V.O.

1918 General Sir Horace Smith-Dorrien, G.C.B., G.C.M.G., D.S.O.

1923 General Sir Charles Monro, Bt., G.C.M.G., G.C.B., G.C.S.I.

1928 General Sir Alexander Godley, G.C.B., K.C.M.G.

1933 General Sir Charles Harington, G.C.B., G.B.E., D.S.O.

1938 General (afterwards Field Marshal Lord) Sir Edmund Ironside, G.C.B., C.M.G., D.S.O.

1939 Lt.-Gen. Sir C. G. Liddell, K.C.B., C.M.G., C.B.E., D.S.O.

1941 General (afterwards Field Marshal) the Viscount Gort, V.C., G.C.B., C.B.E., D.S.O., M.V.O., M.C.

1942 Lt.-Gen. Sir F. N. Mason-MacFarlane, K.C.B., D.S.O., M.C.

1944 Lt.-Gen. Sir T. R. Eastwood, K.C.B., D.S.O., M.C.

1947 Gen. Sir K. A. N. Anderson, K.C.B., M.C.

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL

The Governor.
The Combatant Military Officer next in seniority after the Governor.
The Colonial Secretary.
The Attorney-General.
The Financial Secretary.
E. B. Cottrell, C.B.E., J.P.
C. Gaggero, J.P.
Clerk of the Council—E. H. Davis.

CITY COUNCIL

Elected Members—J. A. Hassan, J.P. (Chairman); E. J. Alvarez, J.P. (Vice Chairman); O. L. Chamberland; L. Mannia; Mrs. D. M. Ellicott; A. Montegriffo; A. W. Serfaty.

Service Representatives—Capt. F. J. Butler, M.B.E., R.N.; Col. J. H. D. Bennett, O.B.E., R.E.; Wing-Commander P. H. R. Saunders, R.A.F.

Colonial Government Representatives—The Director of Labour and Welfare, K. L. Sanders; The Chief Medical Officer, Dr. D. J. Valentine, C.B.E., M.C.; Dr. J. J. Giraldo, O.B.E.

FOREIGN CONSULAR OFFICERS

Belgium—H. C. Reynolds, J.P.
Costa Rica—W. D. Piccone.
Cuba—J. A. Colombo.
Denmark—J. G. Imossi.
Finland—A. H. S. Capurro (Vice-Consul).
France—R. Eymery (Consul).
Greece—L. J. Imossi, O.B.E., J.P.
Honduras—H. H. Wall.
Italy—Count Stefano Mansi.
Liberia—H. F. Cardona, J.P.
Netherlands—W. J. Thomson (Consul), J. A. Colombo (Vice-Consul).
Norway—Major J. G. Douglas (Consul), A. C. Savigno (Vice-Consul).
Panama—G. F. Imossi (Consul).
Peru—G. F. Imossi.
Portugal—M. F. dos Santos (Consul), A. Nascimiento (Vice-Consul).
Siam—H. J. King, O.B.E., J.P.
Spain—Mario de Pinies y Bayona (Consul General), L. Yome Pizarro (Vice-Consul).
Sweden—Sir George Gaggero, O.B.E., J.P.
U.S.A.—(Vacant) (Consul), C. E. Christiani (Vice-Consul).
Venezuela—A. S. Marrache.

SHORT SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY

Gibraltar under Moor, Spaniard and Briton, by E. R. Kenyon. Methuen, 1938, 8s. 6d.
Gibraltar and the Empire, by G. T. Garratt, Cape, 1939, 10s. 6d.
The Story of Gibraltar, by H. W. Howes. Philip & Tracey, 1946, 4s.

CIVIL ESTABLISHMENT

GOVERNOR AND PERSONAL STAFF

Governor and Commander-in-Chief—Gen. Sir Kenneth Anderson, K.C.B., M.C. £5,000 and £685 entertainment allowance from Colonial Funds (with table allowance of £500 from Army Funds).
Assistant Military Secretary—Major I. A. Macalgan, Seaforths.
Personal Assistant and Aide-de-Camp—Captain G. L. Barnes, Royal Artillery.

ADMINISTRATION

Secretariat

Colonial Secretary—B. J. O'Brien, C.M.G. £1,560 and £240 entertainment allowance.
Financial Secretary—A. E. Cook. £1,260.
Chief Assistant Secretary—W. Nash. £780 × 30–960.
Assistant Secretaries—E. H. Davis, J. M. Tasker. £510 × 30–900.
Office Superintendent—L. J. Gomez. £588 × 24–708.

AUDIT

Principal Auditor—M. A. Collings, M.B.E. £960.
Examiner of Accounts—R. A. Giraldi. £588 × 24–708.

EDUCATION

Director of Education—W. A. Grace. £1,160.

JUDICIAL

Chief Justice—R. S. Bacon, M.B.E. £1,460.
Registrar, Supreme Court—E. Pizzarello, I.S.O. £780 × 30–960.
Assistant Registrar, Supreme Court—C. J. Wheeler. £588 × 24–708.

Magistrates’ and Coroner’s Courts

Stipendiary Magistrate, Coroner and Public Trustee—S. W. Weldon. £780 × 30–960.
Magistrates’ Clerk and Registrar of Births, Deaths and Marriages—J. R. Norton-Amor. £588 × 24–708.
LABOUR AND WELFARE

Director of Labour and Welfare—K. L. Sanders. £1,160.
Assistant Director of Labour and Welfare—J. G. Perryman. £780 × 30–960.
Executive Officer, Resettlement Board (Temporary appointment)—D. A. Lucas. £650.
Manager, Employment Exchange—J. W. V. Cumming. £588 × 24–708.
Welfare Officers—P. J. Fernandez. £360 × 15–480 × 18–588. Miss P. Garson. £240 × 12–336 × 15–426.

LANDS AND WORKS

Commissioner of Lands and Works—J. Coelho, O.B.E. £780 × 30–960.
Administrative Assistant—G. A. D. Lavarello, M.B.E. £588 × 24–708.
Technical Assistant—C. McGrail. £588 × 24–708.

LEGAL

Attorney-General—C. C. Ross, K.C. £1,260.
Assistant Attorney-General—J. B. Pine. £780 × 30–960.

MARKETS

Superintendent (Acting)—Dr. J. A. Durante.

MEDICAL AND PUBLIC HEALTH

Colonial Hospital

Chief Medical Officer—D. J. Valentine, C.B.E., M.C. £1,210.
Medical Officers—N. H. Skelton-Browne, C. Michie, J. A. Cochrane, G. I. M. Ross. £660 × 30–960.
Secretary, Colonial Hospital—A. W. Dotto. £588 × 24–708.

King George V Hospital

Physician (part-time)—J. J. J. Giraldi, O.B.E. £630.

School and Child Welfare Medical Services

Paediatrician (part-time)—H. G. Triay. £630.

POLICE

Commissioner of Police—Captain D. S. Gowing. £780 × 30–1,020.
Deputy Commissioner of Police—Vacant. £660 × 30–810.

PORT

Captain of the Port and Shipping Master—Captain G. B. Nasmith. £780 × 30–960.
Assistant Captain of the Port—R. G. Wood. £660 × 30–780.

POST OFFICE

Colonial Postmaster—J. Hayward, O.B.E. £780 × 30–960.
Chief Clerk and Accountant—C. W. Andrew. £588 × 24–708.

PRISON

Superintendent—F. C. Scarlett. £588 × 24–708.

PUBLIC RELATIONS

Public Relations Officer—W. Nash (is also Chief Assistant Secretary).

REVENUE

Income Tax Officer—J. A. D. Barton. £690 × 30–930.
Collector of Revenue—C. J. Gomez, M.B.E. £660 × 30–900.
Accountant—F. P. Galliano. £588 × 24–708.

SUPPLIES CONTROL

Controller of Civil Supplies—J. Hayward, O.B.E. £325. (Is also Colonial Postmaster.)

THE GOLD COAST

SITUATION AND AREA

The Gold Coast lies on the Gulf of Guinea, extending from 3° 15' W. longitude to 1° 12' E. longitude and from 4° 45' N. latitude to 11° 10' N. latitude. It is composed of three territorial divisions—the Colony to the south, the Northern Territories and, between the two, Ashanti. Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship which runs along the eastern side of the territory, is also administered as part of the Gold Coast.

On the west, the Gold Coast marches with the French Colonies of the Ivory Coast and Haute Volta; on the east, with Togoland and on the north, with the French Colony of the Haute Volta. To the south its shores are washed by the Atlantic ocean.

The areas of its various divisions are:

| Division                                      | sq. miles |
|-----------------------------------------------|-----------|
| Gold Coast Colony                             | 23,490    |
| Ashanti                                       | 24,560    |
| Northern Territories                          | 30,600    |
| (Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship)   | 13,040    |

Total: 91,690

CLIMATE

The climate of the Gold Coast resembles that of other territories lying within the tropics, near the equator, in that the weather recurs in reasonably definite seasons which are related to the annual movement of the sun northwards and southwards across the equator. The heaviest rainfall occurs about a month or so after the sun has passed overhead in a particular locality and the rain is to a large extent associated with thunderstorms. Superimposed upon this heavy rain, which is due to the heating of the ground, are periods of rainfall associated with the penetration of moist air from the south-west, which penetration is itself controlled by the movement of the sun and reaches its maximum distance north during the northern summer. This is similar to the S.W. monsoon of India although in the Gold Coast its effect is not so well marked as it is, for example, in Sierra Leone or in South-Eastern Nigeria.
There are four fairly distinct climatic regions viz.: the coastal belt, the extreme south-west corner, the forest belt and the North. The average climate is illustrated by the figures in the table below for Accra, Axim, Kumasi and Tamale, which are respectively typical of the four regions.

| Zone          | Station | Mean Rainfall | Max. Temperature | Relative Humidity |
|---------------|---------|---------------|------------------|-------------------|
| Coastal belt  | Accra   | 29 ins.       | 85·9°F.          | 82%               |
| South-west corner | Axim   | 82 ins.       | 83·5°F.          | 86%               |
| Forest belt   | Kumasi  | 58 ins.       | 86·2°F.          | 84·6%             |
| North         | Tamale  | 43 ins.       | 92·3°F.          | 61%               |

In the coastal belt the annual rainfall, by equatorial standards, is very low: three-quarters of it occurs in the period March-July, and there is a secondary maximum in October. The area is also notable for the relatively cool weather during the period June-September when the average maximum temperature is only 82·5°F, and the average minimum 71·5°F. in Accra itself. This region is probably unique among coastal equatorial regions for its low rainfall and cool weather.

As one moves towards the extreme south-west corner, the amount of rainfall increases rapidly and the climatic regime is more typical of its latitude. There are two marked rainy seasons, with the principal maximum in May-June and a secondary maximum in October-November. Temperatures are much more uniform than in the coastal belt, although the weather is a little cooler during the period June to September than it is for the rest of the year. In the forest belt, there is a relatively dry spell from December to February and again in August; but over the rest of the year the rainfall is fairly uniform, although there are quite definite maxima in May-June and in September-October. Temperatures are a little higher than in the south-west corner but follow the same annual pattern, with a cool spell in July-September. It is in the northern regions that variations in temperatures become more marked: during most of the year the average maxima are over 90°F, and during February and March the average maxima are 100·3°F. and 101·1°F. respectively. There is a small drop in temperature during the period July-September, which coincides with the middle of the rainy season. The highest temperature of 107°F. recorded at Tamale, is the highest recorded in the Gold Coast. Tamale also holds the record for the lowest temperature (60°F.) that has been experienced in any of the principal meteorological stations.

Except when the Harmattan, a dry, dusty, north-east wind, blows from the Sahara, the relative humidity is generally high, usually about 80 per cent. on an average, and the high humidity is the greatest contributory cause of discomfort. The Harmattan reaches the Gold Coast in January and February and, although it is in the north that the principal effect is felt, it also penetrates to the coastal area for short periods. Relative humidity becomes very low, with the result that books and papers curl up, furniture shrinks and the skin becomes parched and dry. The daily range of temperature also increases and the season is a very trying one for Europeans living in the north, but the short spells of the Harmattan in the south are relatively pleasant, because of the cooler nights that accompany it, and provide a welcome relief from the heat of the day.

**GENERAL DESCRIPTION**

**Gold Coast Colony**

The Colony is inhabited by a large number of tribes, whose customs and forms of government are of a more or less similar character. It is divided into states (each with a paramount chief), several of which have formed confederacies and the states and confederacies are administered by Native Authorities. There is a Joint Provincial Council of Chiefs, with deliberative and advisory functions.

A number of different languages and dialects are spoken, the principal being Twi, Fanti, Ewe and Ga, but the use of English is widespread. The Southern Section of Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship is administered with the Colony.

**Ashanti**

Ashanti is a federation of a number of groups of Akan-speaking peoples under the leadership of the Chief of one of these groups (Kumasi) who, since the beginnings of the Confederacy early in the eighteenth century, has been known as the Asantehene (the Paramount Chief of Ashanti). The hegemony of Kumasi was first extended by alliances with Chiefs who were blood relations of the Asantehene—such as Kokofu, Juaben and Bekwai in the east and south—and later by conquest of neighbouring groups—such as the Brong peoples to the north-west of Kumasi, whose ties of blood and language with Bontuku, the old Jaman capital in the Ivory Coast, are closer than their ties with Kumasi.

**The Northern Territories**

The Northern Territories are a Protectorate and are administered, together with the Northern Section of Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship, from Tamale in the Dagomba district, 237 miles north of Kumasi. The Chief Commissioner is advised by the Northern Territories Council.

**Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship**

Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship is part of the former German protectorate of Togoland. It is a narrow strip of territory about 320 miles long lying along the eastern frontier of the Gold Coast between 6° 20' N. and 11° 10' N. It has an area of 13,041 square miles. The population according to the 1948 census was:

- Northern Section: 210,193
- Southern Section: 172,575

Total: 382,768

This total comprises the members of many different tribes. In the Southern Section the people are predominantly Ewe.

Togoland is not distinguished from the Gold Coast in statistical returns other than those dealing with population. Some statistical material is however provided in the appendices to the annual report on the Territory to the United Nations Trusteeship Council.

The road system of Togoland is linked at a number of points with that of the Gold Coast and Togoland under French Trusteeship. A power ferry carries vehicles across the river Volta on the main road between Togoland and the capital Accra. Cocoa, the chief export produce of the Territory is evacuated via the Palime/Lome railway and the port of Lome in Togoland under French Trusteeship.
The Southern Section is linked with the Gold Coast telephone and telegraph service. There is a wireless telegraph service to Yendi and Kete Krachi in the Northern Section. Emergency landing grounds are maintained at Yendi and Kete Krachi.

**POPULATION**

The first attempt to take a census was made in 1891; this, however, covered the Colony only. Since then a census has been taken in 1901, 1911, 1921, 1931 and 1948, the decennial sequence being interrupted between 1931 and 1948 by war conditions. Except in 1901, Ashanti and the Northern Territories have been included and in 1921 and later censuses Togoland under U.K. Trusteeship has been included. In a country such as the Gold Coast, imperfect communications and lack of education militate against complete accuracy in the compilation of a census.

Figures derived from the census taken early in 1948 are as follows:

|                | African | Non-African |
|----------------|---------|-------------|
| Gold Coast     | 4,111,680 | 6,770       |
| Colony         | 2,217,416 | 5,394       |
| Ashanti        | 817,782   | 1,162       |
| Northern Territories | 1,076,482 | 214         |
| The part of Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship (included in above) | 382,717 | 51           |

In some of the chief towns:

- Accra: 133,192
- Cape Coast: 23,206
- Ho: 5,811
- Koforidua: 17,723
- Kumasi: 77,689*
- Sekondi/Takoradi: 43,743
- Tamale: 16,055
- Tarkwa: 7,707

The figures include maritime and military population.

**RELIGION**

The indigenous beliefs of the Akan peoples combine belief in a supreme God with beliefs in lesser gods, in the spirits of ancestors and in fetishes.

The first Christian missionaries landed in 1828 but it was not until 1838 that continuous mission work was established. The principal Christian missions in the Gold Coast are, in numerical order of their number of followers: the Roman Catholic Mission, the Methodist Missionary Society, the Presbyterian Church, the Ewe Presbyterian Church, the English Church Mission, the American Methodist Episcopal Zion Mission, the Assemblies of God Mission and the World Wide Evangelisation Crusade. (See Census of Population, 1948, p. 37.)

The immigrant Hausa section of the population from Northern Nigeria and many of the immigrants from the French Soudan are Mohammedans. Since 1873 Mohammedan missionaries have been active in the Gold Coast. In addition Islam has a considerable influence in the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast. A branch of the Ahmadiyya Movement was opened in 1921, with headquarters at Saltpond. There are numerous branches in the Colony, Ashanti and the Northern Territories.

**HISTORY**

**Introduction**

The first recorded European contact with the Gold Coast occurred in the fifteenth century. For four centuries the history of Europeans in West Africa remained the history of the coastline as they scarcely penetrated the interior and contented themselves with trading from their forts. It was only in the nineteenth century that penetration took place and only in the twentieth century that British rule was established in the interior and international colonial boundaries were defined.

The history of the native peoples of the Gold Coast before the fifteenth century depends on hazy traditions; while even after that time a great deal depends on oral tradition preserved in tribal tales, genealogies and folklore. It is only with European penetration in the nineteenth century that tribal history and movement can be documented in more than an occasional way.

**Tribal Movements**

Early tribal history is based largely on traditions of movement. The present inhabitants all have traditional associations with earlier homes from which they believe they came to the Gold Coast. Even after arrival in the Gold Coast, the tribes continued to move, and they have done so down to modern times.

The tribes of the Gold Coast are all Negro, but they fall into different groups with different geographical origins. The principal group comprises the Akan tribes and includes the Guans, the Ashantis, the Twis and the Fantis. There is reason to believe that the Akans arrived in three waves, thus accounting for their present divisions. The first wave, consisting of the Guans and kindred peoples, came down the Volta Valley, and probably as early as 1200 were in possession of a crescent of land stretching from Bole through Salaga, Krachi, Anum and Accra, as far west as Winneba. The second wave, the ancestors of the Fantis, probably came down the Oflin and the Pra, reaching the coast about 1300 and spreading eastward through Cape Coast until it came in contact with the Guans. The third wave, the ancestors of the Twi peoples, came straight down between the earlier settlers, filling up Ashanti and Akim. Their spear-head, the Akwamus, probably came in contact with the coast people about 1600.

The tribes of the South East including the Ewes, the Gas, Adangmes and Krobus, appear to have come from the East and to have arrived at a rather later stage than the Akans. Tradition places their various original homes in widely scattered parts of what is now Nigeria. The early history of the Northern Territories is obscure, but it is probable that at least parts of the area and some of the tribes fell within one or other of the two, great medieval kingdoms of Melle or Songhai in the Western Sudan.

The principal present inhabitants of the Gold Coast appear therefore to have arrived during the last 700 years, but there are traces of earlier inhabitants, particularly along the coast where fragments of older tribes speaking languages different from the Akan dialects are to be found.

* Including suburban area.
The older inhabitants were probably either overrun by the Akans or pressed southward to the sea coast. Archeology is beginning to throw a little light on early history and traces are fairly widespread of a stone age culture which may have belonged to the original inhabitants as no surviving traditions link the present tribes with it. The flint knives, axes, spear heads and hammer stones are known locally as 'nyame akuma', or the axe of god. The present tribes had a metal culture as far back as European records go. Traces are widespread of old iron smelting ovens, while the original trade with the Europeans was for gold. Gold dust was used as currency for long before the introduction of European coins at the end of the nineteenth century. Brass was also in common use.

External Contacts

(a) Classical Times

It is a matter of interesting speculation whether or not Greek, Carthaginian and Phoenician traders touched points on the Gold Coast during their voyages. It is certain that the Phoenicians sailed beyond the Straits of Gibraltar and down the coast of Africa, but it is not known how far these journeys extended. There are passages in the writings of Herodotus which may well refer to the Gold Coast. It is possible, too, that Hanno reached the Gold Coast, and the Greek Eudoxus certainly reached some point on the west coast, but opinions vary as to whether it was Senegambia or farther south.

(b) Modern Times

Although the French claim to have landed on the Gold Coast in the fourteenth century the first authenticated landing was made by the Portuguese in 1470 in the reign of Prince Henry the Navigator. The Portuguese made a treaty with the Chief of Elmina and a gold mine was opened at Abrobi; while shortly afterwards, in 1482, they built Elmina Castle of material brought from Portugal.

The Papal award of 1494 granted the monopoly of trade to the Portuguese but this monopoly was not respected by interlopers from several nations, including the Spanish and the English. The first recorded English voyage to the coast was that of Thomas Windham who traded on the Gold Coast and as far east as the Benin river. The Dutch were trading on the coast by 1595 and built their first lodge at Mouree in 1598. They captured Elmina in 1637 and finally drove the Portuguese from the coast by the capture of Axim in 1642. The Swedes were on the coast about 1640 and were recorded as being in possession of Ursu lodge at Christiansborg in 1645. The Danes arrived about 1642 and are mentioned in 1657 as having captured Ursu lodge from the Swedes who did not return to the coast. The Brandenburgers arrived in 1682 and remained until 1708. Apart from the English only the Danes and the Dutch remained in the nineteenth century. As a result of treaties, the Danes withdrew in 1850 and the Dutch in 1872, leaving the Gold Coast to the British.

Merchant Adventurers

In the case of each of the European nations the first contacts consisted of visits by the ships of merchant adventurers. After a number of such visits, castles or fortified trading stations were erected. These became the trading headquarters in which goods were stored, and where merchants lived together with a garrison. Protection was needed not only against the possibility of hostility on the part of the tribes but also against pirates and the ships and men of other nations, for the national wars of Europe were also fought out on this coast and led to the capture and recapture of the different forts.

Trade with the Gold Coast originally began with gold and products of the country, such as spices and ivory. But these commodities were soon overshadowed by the slave trade. The Portuguese were slaving by 1497 and were followed by the other nations during the sixteenth century. Slaves remained the principal commodity of trade until the beginning of the nineteenth century, when the trade was legally abolished in Denmark and England and the British Navy set about its suppression.

The Companies

From 1618 to 1820 a series of English companies traded on the Gold Coast under Charter or Act of Parliament. James I granted the first Charter to Sir Robert Rich and certain London merchants who formed the "Company of Adventurers of London trading into Africa." This company was not very successful and its charter lapsed. Charles I granted a Charter to a second company in 1631 granting the exclusive right to trade from Cape Blanco to the Cape of Good Hope for a period of 31 years. This company established the first British forts at Kormantin and other points.

With the Restoration in England came a revival of English interest in West Africa and Charles II granted a new charter in January, 1662, which granted to the Company of Royal Adventurers of England Trading to Africa, the sole trading rights from the straits of Gibraltar to the Cape of Good Hope. This company was, however, ruined by the Dutch wars and gave up its Charter in 1672 at which time Cape Coast Castle was the only station it retained. The old company sold its possessions to the new Royal African Company which was established by Letters Patent under the Great Seal in the same year. It was granted a monopoly to trade between Fort Salle and the Cape of Good Hope, but conflicts with the Dutch, who claimed a similar monopoly, continued. Cape Coast Castle was extended and improved and forts built at Accra, Komenda and Anamabo.

Opposition in England to the grant of royal monopolies led to the passing of an Act in 1698 opening the coast trade to all His Majesty's subjects. A 10 per cent. duty was granted to the company toward the cost of maintaining its forts and garrisons to protect the trade. The tax was, however, evaded and the cost of upkeep fell on the company which, as it could not in these circumstances compete with private traders, began to decline. It continued until 1750 when it was replaced by the African Company of Merchants. An Act of Parliament transferred the forts and possessions to the new company and provided for an allowance of £10,000–15,000 p.a. for maintenance of the forts. Membership of the Company was open to all British merchants.

The Company's principal local officer was the Governor at Cape Coast who had under him commandants in the other forts. In the forts were the secretaries and writers, factors and military garrisons. All the company's servants were allowed to trade except the Governor himself. The company carried on satisfactorily until the abolition of the slave trade in 1807.
removal of this part of the trade had a very serious effect on the company's position. Moreover, the growing power of the Ashantis and their periodical incursions interfered with the internal trade on which the forts depended. In 1819, therefore, it was decided that the government of the settlements should be vested in the Crown. An Act of Parliament was accordingly passed in 1821 which dissolved the company, transferred its possessions and forts to the Crown and placed them under the Governor of Sierra Leone.

Tribal History up to 1821

From the time of the arrival of the present inhabitants in the Gold Coast their history is marked by recurrent tribal warfare. Many of the coastal tribes were small, poorly organised and interested only in trade but their condition invited attack by neighbouring tribes led by warlike or ambitious leaders whose wars yielded them the slaves which were the principal subject of trade. The tribal history of the present Gold Coast was dominated for over two hundred years by the power of the Ashanti Kingdom. The confederacy of Ashanti tribes had already become influential by 1640 but it was Osai Tutu, who became King in 1698, who was the real founder of Ashanti power. It was during his reign that, according to legend, Okomfo-Anotchi, the fetish priest, plucked the Ashanti Golden Stool from the sky and told the people that it contained their national soul, a symbol and a belief which have remained an inspiration to the Ashantis down to the present time. Osai Tutu also founded Kumasi and in alliance with Buaten, Chief of Juaben, defeated the Denkyiras and the Akims. It was as a result of this war about 1706 that the Ashanti Empire first came to the notice of the Europeans on the coast.

By the end of the eighteenth century Ashanti, which in Osai Tutu's reign had consisted of a small area round Kumasi, now ruled over a wide area and commanded the allegiance of Nkoranza, Banda, Jaman, Wassaw, Sefwi, Denkyira, Tufei, Aowin, Tekiman, Assin, Akim, Akwapim, Kwahu and Akwamu. The Ashantis made no attempt to administer or even to occupy this empire permanently or effectively but were content to collect tribute and meet persistent refusal to pay or rebellion with invasion.

The Ashanti Wars

At the turn of the century the Ashantis were beginning to look south and attack the Fanti tribes with whom the British were trading and who, in the face of this new menace, turned to the British for help and protection. In 1806 there occurred the first of the seven Ashanti Wars, the last of which was fought in 1900. The first three wars were Ashanti invasions directed against the southern tribes. They led, however, to some conflict with the British and to a great interruption of their trade.

Various attempts were made to conclude a treaty with the Ashantis but these failed and relations between the British and the Ashantis were strained when the Home Government, after dissolution of the Company by Act of Parliament, assumed control of the Settlements in 1821. The Governor of Sierra Leone, Sir Charles McCarthy, arrived in the Gold Coast in 1822. His attitude, combined with his strengthening of the ties with the Fantis, were interpreted by the Ashantis as hostility. They, therefore, prepared for war and eventually after a number of preliminary skirmishes marched south and defeated the small English force and the Fanti levies at Insamankow in 1824. The Governor was killed. Although the British retaliated by defeating the Ashantis at Dodowa in 1826 the Government decided to withdraw but authorised a Committee of Merchants in London to administer the forts through its own Governor in Cape Coast.

The new Governor, Captain George Maclean, inaugurated a new policy of peace towards the Ashantis by concluding a treaty with them in 1831. This policy was successful and apart from a minor excursion by the Ashantis into the Colony in 1853, the peace lasted for thirty years. The fifth Ashanti War resulted from the Governor's refusal to return certain escaped slaves and a general deterioration of relations. The Ashantis harried the southern tribes and the British made preparations to protect them and attack Kumasi, but were inadequately supported from home and withdrew from the Pru after an indecisive campaign. The British lost much prestige as a result of this campaign and there was talk of their complete withdrawal. The Select Committee of the House of Commons of 1865 reluctantly advised against this course. Having decided to stay, the Government had to manage its affairs better and give a more adequate guarantee of peace and protection for the southern tribes.

No treaty of peace was made after the 1863 campaign and the Ashanti, after many years of delay and preparation, invaded the coastal tribes again in 1873 and remained harrying and living on the country for several months. The home Government was now convinced of the need for firm measures and sent out Sir Garnet Wolseley as civil Governor, and Commander-in-Chief. For the first time a large body of European troops was provided and after driving the Ashantis from the areas south of the Pru, Major-General Wolseley advanced to capture and destroy Kumasi. Shortly afterwards Ashanti envoys came to the Governor and a treaty of peace was made at Fomena. This provided for perpetual peace; an indemnity payable by the Ashantis; the withdrawal of Ashanti troops and claims from the south; and the freedom of trade. As a result of this war a new constitution was introduced declaring the Gold Coast to be a Colony independent of Sierra Leone.

The Ashanti problem, however, remained unsolved. After a year or two the power of the Ashantis revived, and with it the old friction was renewed. Eventually the Governor delivered an ultimatum alleging that the Treaty of Fomena had been violated; traders were being interfered with; the road to the coast was not being kept open; and human sacrifice was continuing. The Governor demanded that the Ashantis should receive a British Resident who would ensure that the Treaty was observed and that they should pay an indemnity. Meanwhile a British military force was on its way. The King failed to comply and in 1896 British troops marched to Kumasi and removed him and his followers to Cape Coast. This was a bloodless campaign but the Ashantis prepared to fight for the return of their Chief when an opportunity arose.

When Sir Frederick Hodgson, the Governor, visited Kumasi in March, 1900 he demanded the surrender of the Golden Stool and this proved the spark which led to the Ashanti rebellion, or the seventh and last Ashanti War. The Governor was besieged in the fort at Kumasi and after great
privation, he broke out with a column in July. The small remaining garrison was relieved on the 15th July by Colonel Willcocks's force just before their supplies ran out. A campaign to pacify the country and re-establish law and trade followed. The Chiefs slowly came in and acknowledged the British rule to which they have since remained loyal.

An echo of the Golden Stool affair occurred in 1920 when it was discovered that the rich stool adornments had been stolen from its hiding place. The Ashantis came in to Kumasi in large numbers but the Government announced that it had no designs on the stool and that it would assist in the detection and punishment of its despoilers. The Government now understood the significance of the stool: that it was the shrine of the soul of the Ashanti people and not simply a throne. The thieves were caught and punished, and the Ashantis, being satisfied with the Government's good intentions regarding the stool, remained loyal.

About the time of the sixth Ashanti War in 1896 the advance of the French and Germans into the hinterland of the Ivory Coast, Togoland and Dahomey, together with the activities of slavers, led the British to make treaties of trade and protection with several tribes North of Ashanti in what has since become the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast. Agreements with the French and Germans of 1898 and 1899 as a result of boundary commissions led to the delimitation of the present international boundaries of the Gold Coast.

Constitutional History from the Nineteenth Century

As has been seen, the first British Government, as opposed to a company administration, was set up in 1821. It was at this time that jurisdiction was beginning to be exercised by British magistrates beyond the immediate vicinity of the forts, an area traditionally marked by the range of the fort guns. The protection of the neighbouring tribes became more clearly accepted, and a more comprehensive obligation assumed, which soon involved the Government in the fourth Ashanti War. After this war the home Government was glad enough to transfer the forts and administration back to the traders in the shape of a Committee of Merchants in London. In 1830 they appointed as their own governor Captain George Maclean who had already soldered on the Gold Coast.

Maclean continued the policy of extending British protection and jurisdiction beyond the forts with the ready co-operation of the neighbouring tribes. His courts were very popular as their decisions were given without fear or favour and were enforced by government officers and police. Moreover tribal wars, robbery and unrest were put down and peaceful conditions for trade and prosperity created. This peace lasted throughout and beyond his time, greatly benefiting all concerned by the security it gave to life and property.

In spite of the popularity of Maclean and the benefits of his policy he was bitterly criticised by well-meaning but ill-informed people in England who even accused him of being involved in slaving. Dr. Madden was sent out to report in 1839 and a Select Committee reported on the situation in 1843. Maclean was vindicated, though the anomaly of the position regarding his jurisdiction outside the Queen's Dominions was admitted. This legal difficulty was overcome by the passage of the British Settlements Act, 1843, and the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1843. It was decided to resume Government control still under Sierra Leone. Lieutenant-Governor Hill was appointed to succeed Maclean, who now became Judicial Assessor to the native chiefs and assisted them in building up their courts and law outside the forts until his death in 1847.

The new Government's first act was to secure the agreement of the chiefs concerned to the exercise of the extra-territorial jurisdiction. This was done by securing their adherence to the Bond of 1844 under which the chiefs (1) acknowledged the Queen's power and jurisdiction (2) agreed to abolish human sacrifice and other barbarous customs and (3) agreed that murders and other crimes should be dealt with before the Queen's judicial officers and the chiefs.

In 1850 the Gold Coast was separated from Sierra Leone and made a separate Colony with a Legislative Council. The Supreme Court was established by Ordinance in 1852. It is clear that at this time the forts and settlements were regarded as a Colony distinct from their dependencies which were regarded as protected territories.

This arrangement continued until, after the fifth Ashanti War, a Select Committee considered the position of the West African Settlements and complained that the protectorate laid heavy burdens on the government with no advantage in return. It was recommended that the Chiefs should not be encouraged to lean on British protection longer than necessary. As a result the Gold Coast was again placed under Sierra Leone in 1866. This restricted policy lasted until after the sixth Ashanti War of 1873–74, when it became clear that the country needed regular and definite government as well as protection. The departure of the Danes in 1850 and the Dutch in 1872 made it easier for the British governments to raise revenue and administer the territory more effectively.

In order that the Government might be placed on a solid legal foundation the Charter of 1866 was replaced by a new Charter of 1874 erecting the Gold Coast and Lagos into a new Colony. In the Gold Coast the Colony comprised only the forts and settlements. The rest of the territory was declared a Protectorate and became the subject of an Order in Council of 1874 under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act. These instruments provided for the Legislative Council to legislate for the whole area though its actual limits were not defined. In 1886 Lagos was separated from the Gold Coast and made into a colony on its own. In 1895 the term Protectorate was dropped and that of Colony used to describe all territory under the Queen's jurisdiction. This de facto position was regularised in 1901 to clear up further difficulties arising from the addition of Ashanti and the Northern Territories by an Order in Council annexing as a colony all territories in the Gold Coast south of Ashanti. The present Colony is therefore a colony by settlement. At the same time Ashanti was annexed as a Colony by conquest while the Northern Territories became a Protectorate by an Order in Council under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act of 1890. The boundaries were set out in the various Orders in Council of 1901 though further amended in 1906.

In 1925 a new constitution was promulgated under which the old Council, composed of ex officio and a few nominated members, was replaced by a partly elected Council though still
with an official majority. The Council was concerned only with the Colony, as the Governor legislated without a council for Ashanti and the Northern Territories. Provision was made for direct election by secret ballot for the Municipal areas of Accra, Cape Coast and Sekondi. A Provincial Council was set up in each of the three Provinces composed of chiefs who elected six members to the Legislative Council as representatives of the rural areas. This Council remained until 1946 when new and important changes were made granting an unofficial majority in the Legislative Council and including in it representatives from Ashanti and making provision for the inclusion of Northern Territory representatives when they had reached a suitable stage of development.

Economic and Social Developments

Since the first European settlement on the coast, trade with the interior had continued with occasional intermission owing to local wars. Trade in slaves began at the end of the fifteenth century and continued for two centuries until the abolition of the trade by Denmark and Great Britain in the early nineteenth century. The slave trade had been the mainstay of the African Company and when the trade was abolished the Company quickly found itself in difficulties. Coast trade generally declined because of the disappearance of its principal commodity and also because of the early Ashanti wars. Trade was not revived until the period of MacLean's administration when his policy produced the conditions of peace and security which enabled the new trade in palm oil to be built up. Vegetable oils continued to be the principal commodity of West African trade throughout the nineteenth century when they were displaced in importance in the Gold Coast by the cocoa trade which began in the last decade of the century and rapidly expanded until the Gold Coast became the world's largest producer.

Although gold had been such an important commodity in the European trade and had figured largely in native culture for some centuries and although gold dust was one of the most important items of currency before the introduction of the West African Currency Board coinage in 1897, it was mined for the most part in shallow native workings until the advent of the European prospectors in the gold boom of the 1880's. It was during this period that deep gold mining began at Tarkwa and rapidly spread to other areas in the Western Province and Ashanti. Since that time gold has continued to grow in importance as a mineral product, though in recent times the mineral income of the Gold Coast has been increased by the discovery and working of diamonds, manganese and bauxite.

Two important factors in the social history of the people during the nineteenth century were, first, the disturbances caused to social life by the Ashanti wars which on several occasions resulted in the devastation of considerably populated areas including the destruction of villages and the massacring of the inhabitants and, second, the abolition first of the slave trade and eventually of the institution of slavery. Although the trade was abolished in British territory in 1807 and the institution abolished by law in 1833, domestic slavery lingered on in the Gold Coast until comparatively modern times. In 1874 the Government passed two Ordinances abolishing all forms of slavery in the Gold Coast and although traces lingered on for some years the civilising influences at work speeded its total disappearance. The Gold Coast has made very remarkable progress in the last century. This has been due to the guarantee of security, the development of rich mineral and agricultural resources and trade, and to the steady advance of education. One or two preliminary efforts at education were begun in the eighteenth century but it was not until the early nineteenth century that first the Wesleyan and later the Basel Missionaries became established. These were later followed by the Anglican and Roman Catholic Missionaries and several other societies. In the early years, education was entirely in the hands of the Missions though Government in the latter part of the century began to make a considerable financial contribution to their work. In addition, Government schools were built and the present policy of the widest possible expansion of education begun.

Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship

German interest in Togoland was formally recognised by agreements made with the French on 24th December, 1885, and with the British on the 14th and 28th July, 1886, when the provisional frontiers of Togoland were fixed. Immediately on the outbreak of war between Great Britain and Germany, Togoland was invaded by Gold Coast forces. Joint Anglo-French operations against the Germans were successful and brought about the surrender of the Territory on the 26th August, 1914. The administration of the Territory was shared between the British and the French and the present boundary between the British and the French spheres was established as the result of an agreement signed by Lord Milner and M. Simon on 10th July, 1919.

In October, 1921, the Council of the League of Nations approved in principle the arrangement made between the British and French Governments and the application to the territories of the mandate system; on 20th July, 1922, the Council confirmed the mandates and defined their terms.* Togoland under British Mandate was administered under the mandate system by the Government of the Gold Coast on behalf of H.M. Government until December, 1946, when the General Assembly of the United Nations approved the draft Trusteeship Agreement† for the British sphere of Togoland.

CONSTITUTION

The constitutional instruments providing for the government of the Gold Coast at the time of writing are the Gold Coast Ordinances Order-in-Council dated 19th February, 1946, the Gold Coast Colony and Ashanti (Legislative Council) Order-in-Council dated 19th February, 1946, and the Letters Patent and Royal Instructions dated 7th March, 1946. The Executive Council consists of the Colonial Secretary, the Chief Commissioners of the Colony, Ashanti, and the Northern Territories, the Attorney-General, the Financial Secretary, and the Director of Medical Services (ex-officio members) and such other persons (appointed members) as may be appointed in terms of the Royal Instructions. The Legislative Council consists of a President (at present Mr. E. C. Quist, O.B.E.), six ex-officio members, 19 elected members (nine to be elected by the Joint Provincial Council, Colony, four to be elected by the Ashanti Confederacy Council, one to be elected by the Southern Togoland Council, and five by

*For text of British mandate, see Cmd. 1794.
†Published as Cmd. 7083.
the electorates of Accra (2), Cape Coast, Sekondi, and Kumasi), and six nominated members. The ex-officio members are the Colonial Secretary, Chief Commissioner of the Colony, Chief Commissioner of Ashanti, Chief Commissioner of the Northern Territories, the Attorney-General and the Financial Secretary.

A Committee, under the chairmanship of Mr. Justice J. H. Coussey, was appointed at the end of 1948 to make recommendations regarding the revision of the Constitution. Its report was published in October, 1949 (Colonial 248) and subject to certain modifications was accepted by H.M. Government in a statement published with the report (Colonial 250). A new Constitution based on these documents will be introduced early in 1951. Under the new Constitution the Executive Council will consist of the Governor, three ex-officio members (the Chief Secretary, the Attorney-General and the Financial Secretary) and eight representative members selected from the elected members of the Legislative Assembly. It will be the main instrument of policy and six of the representative members in addition to the ex-officio members will be termed Ministers and charged with responsibility for groups of departments. The other two representatives will be Ministers without portfolio. The Legislative Council will be greatly enlarged and will consist of thirty-seven members elected by the four Territorial Councils, thirty-three members elected by the rural constituencies of the Colony and Ashanti, five municipal members elected by the same towns as elect members to the present Legislative Council, three members each elected by the Chambers of Commerce and Mines and the three ex-officio members of the Executive Council. Elections to the new Legislative Assembly will be held early in 1951.

**Administration**

**Gold Coast Colony**

The Colony is administered under the Governor by a Chief Commissioner, with headquarters at Cape Coast. There are twelve Districts in charge of Senior District Commissioners and District Commissioners:

- Accra (Accra); Akwapim-New Juaben (Koforidua); Volta River (Akuse); Ho (Ho, Togoland), Krachi (Kole-Krachi, Togoland), which includes the Kpandu sub-district; Keta, which is administered as if it were a sub-district from Ho; Ada; Cape Coast (Cape Coast), which includes the Winneba and Dunkwa sub-districts; Birim (Kibi), which includes the Mpraeso and Oda sub-districts; Ahanta-Nzima (Sekondi), which includes the Axim sub-districts; Wasaw-Aowin (Tarkwa), which includes the Enchi sub-district; Sefwi (Wiawso), which includes the Bibiani sub-district and Krachi.

**Ashanti**

Ashanti is administered under the Governor by a Chief Commissioner, with an Assistant Chief Commissioner as relieving officer, and is divided into the following districts, each under a District Commissioner with limited powers of jurisdiction:

- Bekwai
- Kumasi
- Mampong
- Wenchi/Sunyani

**The Northern Territories**

The Northern Territories are administered under the Governor by a Chief Commissioner with an Assistant Chief Commissioner as relieving officer. They are divided into Mamprusi, Wa, Dagomba and Gonja districts, with headquarters, at Gambaga (shortly to be moved to Bolgatanga), Wa, Yendi and Salaga respectively.

**Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship**

The British sphere is administered under the provisions of the Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship Order-in-Council, 1949, which came into operation on the 3rd December, 1949. It is divided for administrative purposes into the Northern Section and the Southern Section.

The Northern Section is administered as if it formed part of the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast, and the Southern Section as if it formed part of the Gold Coast Colony. The Supreme Court of the Gold Coast exercises jurisdiction in both sections, except as regards land cases in the Northern Section which are tried by native courts but in certain cases of first instance, and an appeal from native courts, by the Chief Commissioner's Court.

The law for the time being in force in the Northern Territories is the law in force in the Northern Section. While in the Southern Section special legislation deals with Native Administration, Native Courts and the alienation of land, the law for the time being in force in the Gold Coast Colony is, for the rest, the law in force in the Southern Section.

The Southern Section, which now includes Krachi, is administered together with the Keta District of the Gold Coast Colony as a single area under a Senior District Commissioner at Ho. The Northern Section comprises parts of the Gonja (Headquarters Damongo), Dagomba (Headquarters Yendi), and Mamprusi (Headquarters Gambaga) Districts.

**Municipal Government**

The towns of Accra, Cape Coast, Kumasi, and Sekondi-Takoradi have Town Councils with an unofficial majority.

**Law and Justice**

The Law of the Colony is the Common Law, the doctrines of equity, and the statutes of general application in force in England on 24th July, 1874, modified by a large number of local Ordinances passed since that date. The criminal law was codified in 1892, and the civil and criminal procedure are regulated by the Courts Ordinance and the Criminal Procedure Code, both enacted in 1935.

Justice is administered by the Supreme Court which is presided over by the Chief Justice and eight Puisne Judges. Divisional Courts of the Supreme Court are held in different parts of the Colony and Ashanti, and within certain specified areas the Lands Division of the Court exercises a limited original and appellate jurisdiction in land cases. There are also a large number of inferior courts with limited criminal and civil jurisdiction, some of which are presided over by District Magistrates and District Commissioners. The Supreme Court has an original civil and criminal jurisdiction, and also decides appeals from the inferior courts. Appeals from the Divisional Courts and Land Courts lie to the West African Court of Appeal.
Native customary law is administered in all courts, in so far as it is not incompatible, either directly or by necessary implication, with any ordinance for the time being in force, and not repugnant to natural justice, equity and good conscience.

Native courts are established throughout the Gold Coast, with criminal and civil jurisdiction in cases where the parties are subject thereto.

There are five Central Prisons for males and one for females. In addition, there are 16 Local Prisons, two open Prison Camps for first offenders and a Borstal Institution. The Central Prison for females accommodates female prisoners from all over the Colony who have been sentenced to terms of over one month. Each Local Prison has its own female wing for women serving sentences of under one month.

There is a Training Depot for warders, and all entrants to the service pass through the Depot. Courses are also held for serving warders to fit them for posts of higher responsibility.

A specially constructed prison for prisoners suffering from leprosy and tuberculosis is situated near the open camp for first offenders at Ankafu near Cape Coast.

There is an earning scheme for prisoners serving sentences, and all prisoners receive some form of schooling according to their needs. There are Certificated Teachers at all the Central Prisons. Each Central Prison has its own Discharged Prisoners Aid Agent who undertakes the rehabilitation of prisoners on discharge.

SOCIAL SERVICES

Education

The system of education is, for the most part, under the management of Educational Units, that is, denominational bodies, native authorities, and, in a few cases, private organisations. To these Units the Central Government makes annually, from its funds, substantial contributions towards the cost of conducting efficiently the "assisted" primary and secondary schools, and the teacher-training colleges. In the Colony and Ashanti there are "designated schools", which do not receive grants-in-aid from the Central Government and which have been selected for improvement on the recommendation of District Education Committees. The cost of these schools is borne by the Native Authorities, which are themselves grant-aided by the Central Government.

In the application of policy the Director of Education is advised by the Central Advisory Committee on Education which exercises purely advisory functions. This Committee is closely linked with the District Education Committees and on it the principal agencies concerned in education are represented. From their special knowledge of local conditions and local needs the District Education Committees can be relied upon for advice as to the best possible action based on considerations of policy.

All teachers are registered and there is legislation for the registration of schools. There are two Education Ordinances which provide for the separate control of education in the Colony and Ashanti and in the Northern Territories. These enactments contain a specific provision regarding the inspection of schools, and confer upon the Director of Education or his representative right of entry for this purpose. In the latter administration, educational development is chiefly through native authorities, the Central Government training teachers and subsidising schools. In all three administrations grants from funds contributed by native authorities are proportioned to local needs.

Primary Education.—The following table shows the number of primary schools and the enrolment at the end of 1949:

| Type of School | No. of Schools | No. of Pupils |
|---------------|---------------|--------------|
| Government primary | 36            | 100,888      |
| Government assisted | 584           |              |
| Designated     | 852           | 96,091       |
| Others         | 1,500*        | 64,900*      |
| Totals         | 2,972         | 261,879      |

Secondary Education.—There are the following Government-assisted secondary schools for boys: the Presbyterian Church of the Gold Coast School at Odumase—Krobo; Mfantsipim (Methodist Church), Adisadel College, (English Church Mission) and St. Augustine's College (Roman Catholic Mission), all at Cape Coast; Accra Academy, Accra, which was placed on the Assisted List in 1948; Prempeh College, Kumasi, which was opened in January, 1949, as a joint Methodist-Presbyterian institution; the Ewe Presbyterian Secondary School which was opened in 1950 at Ho in the Southern Section of Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship. There are at Cape Coast two secondary schools for girls: Wesley Girls' Secondary School and the Holy Child College (Roman Catholic Mission). Other girls' secondary schools are conducted by the Order of the Holy Paraclete (English Church Mission) at Mampong, Ashanti (St. Monica's College) and by the Scottish Mission at Aburi. Achimota School (see below) is co-educational. The enrolment in Assisted Secondary Schools and Achimota School at the end of 1949 was 2,511, of whom 2,062 were boys and 449 were girls. A secondary class will be instituted in 1951 at Tamale in the Northern Territories as part of the large Government educational establishment there. Provision for the further extension of facilities for secondary school education is included in the current ten-year development plan. Pupils of the secondary schools are presented annually for the School Certificate Examination of the University of Cambridge Local Examinations Syndicate. In December, 1949, 225 candidates from Government-assisted secondary institutions, including Achimota School, passed the examination.

Training of Teachers.—The principal teacher-training courses are (i) a four-year post-primary (or, alternatively, a two-year post-secondary) course for teachers who will be employed in the primary schools, including the senior primary schools; (ii) a two-year post-primary course for teachers for infant-junior schools only, which provide a six-year primary course from which pupils may proceed to the four-year senior primary course; (iii) special courses in arts and crafts, and in domestic science. A special music course has already been started at Achimota Teacher Training College and it is proposed to increase further the number and variety of special courses.
Men teachers undergo the four-year post-primary or the two-year post-secondary course at Achimota Training College; Wesley College, Kumasi; the Presbyterian Training College, Akropong; St. Augustine's Roman Catholic College, Cape Coast; and the Government Training College, Tamale. Similar courses for women are provided at Achimota Training College; the Holy Child College (Roman Catholic Mission), Cape Coast; Wesley College, Kumasi; the Scottish Mission Training College, Aburi; St. Monica's College, Mampong, Ashanti; and the Basel Mission Training College, Agogo, Ashanti.

The Certificate B two-year post-primary course is now provided at the following institutions:

- The Scottish Mission College for women at Odumase-Krobo;
- The Ewe Presbyterian Church College for men at Amedzofe in the Southern Section of Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship;
- The Seventh-Day Adventist Mission College for men at Bekwai, Ashanti;
- The Presbyterian Church of the Gold Coast College for men (St. Andrew's College) now in temporary quarters at Akropong, Akwapim (to be transferred to Mampong, Ashanti);
- The Roman Catholic Mission (S.V.D.) College for men, now in temporary quarters at Odumase-Krobo (to be transferred to new buildings at Somanya);
- The Roman Catholic Mission College for men, now in temporary quarters at Amisanu (to be transferred to new buildings at Apowa near Sekondi);
- The Roman Catholic Mission (Trans-Volta) College for men at Hoheo in the Southern Section of Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship;
- the Roman Catholic Mission (Ashanti) College for men at Bechem;
- the Government Training College, Tamale;
- the Methodist Training College, Komenda;
- the Government Training College, Winneba.

As a further part of the planned development of education, it is proposed to establish several more Certificate B Colleges. All teacher-training colleges conducted by the Educational Units are grant-aided by the Central Government.

Trade and Technical Education.—The Government Technical School, Takoradi, provides four-year courses of secondary vocational training in building (including woodwork) and mechanical engineering. In addition, handicraft teachers for senior primary schools and teacher-training colleges are trained at the school. Trade-training centres, which are post-primary boarding establishments giving training in carpentry, joinery, masonry, general building and metalwork have been opened at Asuansi (1948) and Mampong, Ashanti (1949). It is proposed to open a centre at Tamale in the near future. Plans for the early development of trade and technical education include three Technical Institutes, which will provide part-time and full-time classes in trades, technology, commercial and general subjects, and housecraft.

Schools for the training of subordinate technical staff are conducted by the medical, agricultural, animal health, survey, posts and telegraphs, and railway departments.

Achimota.—The Prince of Wales College and School at Achimota near Accra was opened in January, 1927, as a co-educational boarding institution. It consisted of a Kindergarten, a primary school (these were subsequently discontinued), a secondary school, a teacher-training college, and a post-secondary department in which students were prepared for the University of London Intermediate Arts and Science Examinations and B.Sc. Engineering Examinations. Achimota was an independent institution which received a large annual subsidy from the Central Government and which, in accordance with its constitution, was administered by its own council consisting partly of elected and partly of nominated members. Similar arrangements apply to its successor institutions, which came into existence by legislation in July, 1948, and are Achimota School, Achimota Teacher-Training College, and the University College of the Gold Coast.

The University College of the Gold Coast.—The University College of the Gold Coast was brought into being by legislation in July, 1948, and there were 108 students taking Intermediate and degree courses at the College at the end of 1949.

The Proposed College of Arts, Science and Technology.—Government proposes to establish in the near future a College of Arts, Science and Technology, which will form an important part of the structure of education in the Gold Coast. It will train teachers of technical subjects, and provide courses in engineering, accountancy, agriculture and other professions at varying post-secondary levels.

Private Study for University Examinations.—Substantial numbers of candidates prepare themselves by private study for a wide variety of university examinations which are regularly conducted by the Education Department on behalf of the University of London and other United Kingdom authorities.

Scholarships.—The Central Government makes large provision for scholarships for secondary education and for teacher-training courses. There are, in addition, numerous scholarships schemes for university and comparable studies at the University College of the Gold Coast and in the United Kingdom. The schemes provide for degree courses and for qualifications in medicine, dentistry, education, agriculture, technology, linguistics, etc. There are approximately 500 Gold Coast students in the United Kingdom, of whom 290 are scholarship holders.

Information Services

The function of the Public Relations Department is to explain Government policy to the people in such a way as to enlist their maximum understanding and co-operation. The Department is organised in six sections: Administrative, Publications, Programmes, Cinema, Films and Photographic.

The Department has been reorganised so as better to cover the whole country and Regional Public Relations Offices have been set up in the Colony, Ashanti and the Northern Territories.

The Publications Section assists the local press and keeps it supplied with local and foreign news, background material and printing blocks. It also undertakes the preparation of two daily news bulletins in English for broadcasting. This Section is responsible for the publication of the "Gold Coast Bulletin" and distributes free 27,000 copies of it, each week, to every part of the country and to addressees abroad. A reference library of books of local and general interest, complete sets of newspapers and periodicals and press-clipping files is maintained. The distribution side of this section distributes books, literature, pictures, picture display sheets (mainly of local and topical subjects), posters and photographs to all parts of the country.
The Programmes Section prepares two news bulletins for broadcast daily, in English and the principal vernaculars. Other programmes broadcast include: talks, both educational and topical; studio- and outside-recorded interviews; round-table discussions; plays and features; "magazine" programmes for women and for children (in English and vernaculars); musical programmes and variety shows. The programmes are transmitted by the Government Broadcasting transmitters in Accra, and relayed by twenty rediffusion stations to loud-speakers in the homes of rediffusion subscribers, and to loud-speakers in market places and other points of assembly throughout the country.

The Cinema Section possesses a library of films and operates 16 travelling cinema vans which are used to give shows throughout the country. Small mobile cinema units give frequent shows in urban and rural areas. The Section also supervises the issue to local commercial cinemas of newsreels and interest films supplied by the Central Office of Information.

The Film Section—reorganised as the Gold Coast Film Unit—now works as a professional 35 mm. production unit. During the current year it has produced two 4-hour films; "New Horizons" deals with the significance and achievements of education in the Gold Coast; "Amenu's Child" ("How better ways of feeding came to an African Village") attacks the problem of infant mortality through malnutrition. The latter film was made for rural audiences, for showing on the Department's mobile cinema vans. In addition, the Unit produces the Gold Coast Review, a 10-minute cine-magazine designed to record progress and news in the country, both for theatrical and non-theatrical distribution.

The Photographic Section produces photographs for display and publication on behalf of Government Departments. Selected photographs are supplied to United Kingdom periodicals interested in Colonial Affairs, in addition to those supplied for local publication. Over 40,000 photographs were produced during the past year.

Medical Facilities

Government Medical Officers are normally stationed at the principal centres throughout the Gold Coast. Specialists in medicine and surgery are posted to the three large general hospitals of 200-400 beds each. There is also a specialist in gynaecology and obstetrics in charge of the maternity hospital. The Eye Diseases Clinic at the Gold Coast Hospital is under the charge of an ophthalmologist. These officers are available for consultation by the general public. Shortage of medical officers is still acute but there was a slight improvement over the previous year.

There are 33 Government hospitals in the Gold Coast, providing 1,517 beds and cots. In 1949, a total of 59,042 in-patients were treated in hospitals in the Gold Coast, out-patients numbered 777,949. These figures included cases treated in Mines' hospitals and Native Authority dispensaries.

The largest hospitals in the Gold Coast are:

(a) The Gold Coast Hospital at Accra;
(b) The General Hospital in Kumasi; and
(c) The new Effia Nkwanta Hospital in Sekondi.

In 1949, 6,671 in-patients and 42,964 out-patients were treated at the Gold Coast Hospital, while 554 major operations were performed.

The Maternity Hospital, Accra, has an accommodation for 73 beds and 63 cots. Ante-natal clinics in the Maternity Hospital and at extra-mural centres have become extremely popular and accommodation for in-patients has been strained to its utmost capacity. To relieve overcrowding in the wards, nurseries and clinics, proposals are being considered for the erection of separate buildings for ante-natal clinics in the Hospital. During 1949, 1,129 deliveries were conducted at the Maternity Hospital.

This hospital is the principal training centre for midwives in the Gold Coast. Twenty-one pupil midwives and 49 Second Division nurses are under training as Midwives. Present policy is to select Second Division Nurses with satisfactory records for training at the Midwives Hostel. The demand for admission from this category continues to be heavy and competition is naturally keen. To cater for pupil midwives in rural areas a new Midwifery Training School has been opened at Kumasi, and 11 pupil midwives are at present in training at the School.

The hospital at Effia Nkwanta, about 3 miles from Takoradi, opened in August, 1948, has accommodation for 136 beds and 20 cots and is under the charge of a Surgical Specialist.

The construction of the Nurses Training College and Hostel at Accra, is now completed. It has accommodation for 172 students: at present there are 130, an increase of 33 over the 1948 figure. Eight students completed their training and passed the Final State Examination. The close proximity of the College and Hostel to the Gold Coast Hospital affords the students an opportunity of gaining practical experience in nursing which the Hospital offers. Demonstrations are also arranged for the senior students in the Pathological Research Laboratory. The Senior Staff comprises two Sister Tutors, two English Mistresses, two Science Mistresses and one Home Sister. The object of the College is to train African female nurses capable of filling higher nursing appointments. Recognition by the State Nursing Council in England has been granted to such of the nurses who qualify as State Registered Nurses at the College.

The Medical Research Institute is situated near the Gold Coast Hospital and carries out routine pathological examinations. Research at the Institute was limited owing to the shortage of trained staff.

The Limb Fitting Centre continues to manufacture prothesis and to carry out all types of repairs and maintenance of artificial limbs. The important feature of the year's work was the carrying out of major repairs to artificial limbs manufactured over five years ago.

A proposal for the construction of three rural health centres has been approved, sites acquired and contracts placed. The medical staff at each will consist of a trained dresser, a midwife and a sanitary inspector. The centres are designed to provide small community centres by the addition of another wing which will consist of a serving room, a meeting place for public discussions, a reading room and a games room. There will also be two or three labour or waiting rooms where patients will be waiting pending removal to hospital. These rural health centres are intended to show the Native Authorities the scope of the services offered, and how to plan their own development. Groups of dressing stations are being developed. These will gradually evolve into
health centres and will be limited to the district hospitals envisaged in the Ten Year Plan. Venereal Diseases Clinics have been opened at Sekondi and Takoradi under the charge of a special medical officer appointed for the purpose. Municipal Authorities are being encouraged to run their own clinics which will be subsidised by Government.

Major endemic diseases such as yaws and trypanosomiasis and epidemic diseases such as cerebro-spinal meningitis and small-pox are problems which are being dealt with by means of "mobile medicine" which is being developed in the form of mass treatment teams.

There are three mobile dispensaries under the charge of trained nurses. These dispensaries are based on Winneba, Sunyani and Tamale. Owing to bad roads and constant breakdowns this experiment is proving less encouraging than was hoped.

A school for the training of Native Authority Dressers at Kintampo is still functioning. The first batch of trainees have qualified and will be available for posting to Native Authority dressing stations to replace government nurses posted to these stations.

**Health**

Shortage of staff has confined the posting of full-time Medical Officers of Health to Accra, Kumasi, Takoradi and Tamale. In other areas medical officers undertake all health duties but only to the extent that their ordinary duties allow. European sanitary superintendents are posted to the larger towns.

Public Health activities are extended into the rural areas as far as staff will permit, control being chiefly exercised in the larger villages and smaller towns on the more important trade routes. Other activities of the department comprise the health education of the people, domiciliary visits, vigorous anti-mosquito measures and the prevention of infectious and communicable diseases. In the ports and main air ports strict sanitary and quarantine measures in accordance with international conventions are enforced by Health Officers. Child-welfare work also forms an important part of the activities of the department, and for this purpose a staff of women medical officers and health visitors is maintained. The Gold Coast branch of the British Red Cross Society continues to do useful work in this field maintaining many child-welfare institutions in the country, and all their ante-natal and child-welfare clinics did an increased amount of work. Their five mobile maternity and child welfare clinics gave excellent service. The Society also supplied milk to necessitous mothers free of charge, at weighing centres for children.

Infant and ante-natal welfare centres are situated in Accra and Kumasi. These centres are run by women medical officers and a staff of trained nurses and health visitors. The volume of work carried out by these centres has increased considerably. There is evidence of increasing awareness on the part of both mothers and Native Authorities of the benefits derived from maternity and child welfare work. This awareness has led to the opening of maternity and child-welfare centres in rural areas. These centres are operated by private midwives employed by Native Authorities.

**Labour**

The Labour Department started in 1938 with one officer stationed in Kumasi. The Headquarters were moved to Accra in 1942, and there are now Labour Officers in Accra, Takoradi, Tarkwa and Kumasi. The work of the department has recently been extended to the Northern Territories, where a senior officer is stationed at Tamale. Employment exchanges have been opened in Accra, Kumasi and Takoradi, and in addition, smaller offices in the charge of junior members of the staff are to be found widely distributed throughout the country.

The senior staff consists of a Commissioner of Labour, Deputy Commissioner of Labour, two Senior Labour Officers, eleven Labour Officers, five of whom are Africans, and an Administrative Assistant who is also an African. There are in addition unfilled vacancies for a Factory Inspector and a Labour Officer (Technical). Three Senior Labour Inspectors and nine Labour Inspectors assist the Labour Officers in their duties. As part of its post-war activities the department has been responsible for the resettlement of ex-servicemen. This problem is now largely resolved and has been merged with the general problem of employment but one Resettlement Officer remains to supervise the administration of War Pensions and the distribution of War Medals.

In addition to its routine duties of inspecting places and conditions of employment, investigating complaints, assisting in workmen's compensation cases, and promoting good relations in industry and commerce, the department also seeks to foster sound and progressive development of the trade union movement, and to advise the individual unions on matters of internal economy. On the 1st April, 1950, there were 64 registered trade unions whose total paid-up membership was not known. This compares with 42 unions and 38,200 members on the 1st April, 1949.

A new and comprehensive Labour Ordinance became law on the 1st October, 1948. It embraces the provisions of those I.L.O. conventions which have been accepted by His Majesty's Government on behalf of the Gold Coast. This measure was amended by the Labour (Amendment) Ordinance, 1949.

**Welfare**

On the 1st of August, 1950, the Department of Social Welfare and Housing, established in 1946, separated into the two distinct departments of Social Welfare and Housing.

The Department of Social Welfare is sub-divided into three sections:

- "Social Welfare", under the control of a Chief Welfare Officer;
- "Social Development", under a Chief Social Development Officer, and a
- "Probation and Juvenile Delinquency Service", under a Commissioner.

The Department is controlled by a Director and a Deputy Director.

**Social Welfare**

The main concern of this Section is to promote Welfare projects throughout the Gold Coast, either by direct action or in co-operation with voluntary organisations and non-Government associations, with particular reference to the needs of the individual.

Officers of the Department co-operate closely with Welfare Officers of the Mining Companies and other non-Government bodies. A limited
amount of case work is being undertaken with the object of assisting those members of the community who for some special reason, such as destitution and physical infirmity, require help which their families cannot supply. Investigations and reports on special cases are also dealt with in response to enquiries from other agencies both in the Gold Coast and overseas.

Experimental Welfare work has been started in hospitals at Accra and Sekondi but it is hoped in the near future to establish a proper Almoner's Service in the main Gold Coast hospitals on lines similar to those which obtain in the United Kingdom.

The Department works in close co-operation with voluntary bodies such as the Red Cross, Child Care Society, Society of Friends of Lepers, Boy Scouts, Girl Guides, etc., and has assisted in the setting up and maintenance of day nurseries and play centres and in providing visiting and welfare services in hostels for destitute persons, leper settlements, prisons and the Accra Mental Hospital. Women Assistant Welfare Officers give courses of instruction to women in housecraft, hygiene, infant welfare and needlework.

The Social Welfare Section is at present responsible for the maintenance and supervision of Community and Youth Centres throughout the Gold Coast but this work will be gradually assigned to the Social Development Section.

Social Development

The immediate aim of the section is to stimulate and foster community development in the smaller urban and rural areas by holding short courses of training for potential leaders of the community. Popularly known as "Mass Education Courses", they are designed to encourage efforts towards social service and economic progress with emphasis on the development of a proper community spirit. The Laubach Method of teaching illiterates to read has been followed with marked success. The Mass Education Teams themselves are specially trained in the School of Social Welfare at Accra, some personnel being seconded from other Departments. The teams are able to give instruction in such varied subjects as Physical Training, Music, Handicrafts, First Aid, Agriculture, Hygiene, Home Economics and Child Care.

Youth organisations, particularly Boys' Clubs and Camps, are organised and promoted, and the utmost improvisation is resorted to in inculcating and developing a sense of good citizenship amongst the youth of the country.

The spread of literacy in the Gold Coast has given rise to an increasing demand for vernacular literature.

With particular regard to the needs of the literacy campaign organised by the Social Development Section a Board of Vernacular Literature has now been established.

Probation and the Treatment of Juvenile Delinquency

Probation Officers are stationed at Accra, Kumasi and Sekondi/Takoradi. It is planned to develop the Probation Service and to extend it to additional Magisterial Districts.

At present there are three Juvenile Courts situated at Accra, Kumasi and Sekondi/Takoradi, but as soon as sufficient staff is available it is intended to increase the number. There are Remand and Probation Homes at Accra and Kumasi to assist the work of the Juvenile Courts and a further Home will be built at Sekondi in the near future. Whenever possible use is made of the "Fit Person" system in providing for the rehabilitation of juveniles in need of care and protection but there are not yet sufficient people willing to assist in this way.

For cases where probation is not considered suitable or has failed to produce the desired result, recourse is had to the Boys' Industrial School at Agona Swedru. This is a residential school, run on the lines of an approved school in England. Strict discipline is enforced and the boys are not only taught various educational subjects but are also instructed in a trade or in farming.

Juveniles discharged from the School are helped and guided after their release by a system of after-care supervision.

Housing

The Department of Housing is responsible for building and maintaining housing estates for persons on small incomes and the labouring classes, and rentals in these estates are subsidised. In addition the Department is constructing, in Accra, houses for sale to persons whose houses were destroyed or demolished in the earthquake of 1939 and who since then have been accommodated in temporary houses.

Since 1946 some 5,000 room units have been constructed on subsidised housing estates in addition to some 500 permanent houses in Accra.

Rural Water Development

In 1944, a special department—originally known as Temporary Water Supply Department—was set up and charged with the provision of water supplies to small towns, villages, rural communities and places where stock watering was essential. It rapidly became apparent that no temporary department could tackle the work and accordingly this branch of the service was made permanent as from 1947. Owing to shortages of staff and materials no serious work was possible until the latter end of 1946 but good progress has since been achieved. To the end of April, 1950, 846 wells, 10 reservoirs, and 4 boreholes had been completed in rural areas and in addition major piped supplies to 6 towns were completed or in hand. The Ten-Year Plan of Development has recently been drawn up and this provides for very considerable, and rapid, expansion of the department's activities.

Communications

Roads

The mileage of all-weather roads, exclusive of town roads, maintained by the Public Works Department, is 2,992½ miles, made up as follows:

| District       | Tarred or Bitumen Surface Miles | Gravel Miles | Total Miles |
|----------------|----------------------------------|--------------|-------------|
| Accra          | 139½                            | 193½         | 332¾        |
| Nsawam         | 61½                             | 148¾         | 210         |
| Koforidua      | 78                               | 117½         | 195¼        |
| Keta           | 11                               | 67           | 68          |
| Winneba        | 81½                             | 156½         | 238¾        |
| Cape Coast     | 102½                            | 111          | 213¾        |
| Takoradi       | 39½                             | 248          | 287¾        |
| Dunkwa         | 2                                | 246          | 248         |
| Ashanti        | 203½                            | 582½         | 785¾        |
| Northern Territories | 4                        | 408¾         | 412¾        |

Total: 713½, 2,279½, 2,992¾
In addition there are approximately 3,385 miles of roads maintained by the Political Administration and approximately 4,402 miles of motorable roads maintained by Native Authorities and Timber Companies.

The ferry over the River Volta at Senchi is capable of taking the largest cars and lorries, and is now worked by an endless chain driven by a petrol motor placed on the ferry boat. A similar ferry is in operation over the same river at Yeji on the Kumasi-Tamale road.

Several new bridges were constructed during 1947-48, including one over the White Volta on the Bolgatanga-Bawku road.

The Government maintains a motor transport service which handles Government cargo and officials’ baggage and stores arriving by sea and air.

It provides transport for movements of personnel and Government stores, to and from the rail heads, and throughout those parts of the Colony not served by the Gold Coast Railway.

In addition to their departmental duties, the officers of the Transport Department assist in carrying out the provisions of the Motor Traffic Ordinance by acting as testing and certifying officers.

**Rivers**

The Black Volta rises in the hills near Soukouraba, and the White Volta rises near Quahigouga, both in the French Colony of Haute Volta. These two rivers converge some 280 miles from the sea on the Ashanti-Northern Territories border and become the River Volta which flows into the sea at Ada. This river is navigable for light draught launches as far as Akuse, and, with the exception of the Krachi rapids, can be used for canoe traffic during certain seasons of the year as far as Yeji. The Ankobra River is navigable for many months of the year by surf-boats and light draught launches for a distance of 50 miles. The Tano, connected with Half Assini by the main lagoon, is navigable for light draught launches and canoes as far as Tanoso, a distance of about 60 miles. The Sutri rapids prevent this river being further utilised.

**Railways**

Railway communication consists of a main line from Takoradi to Kumasi, thence to Accra, a distance of 365 miles, with branches, Sekondi to Takoradi Junction (3 miles), Tarkwa to Prestea (19 miles), Aboso to Cinnamon Bippo (4 miles), Huni Valley to Kade (99 miles), and Dunkwa to Awoso (46 miles). The main line and branches are 3 feet 6 inches gauge.

The Railway and Takoradi and Accra Harbour are now incorporated in one administration. The gross earnings of the administration for the year 1948/49 were £2,843,984.

**Shipping**

The Gold Coast was for many years at a great disadvantage in that it possessed no deep-water harbour. Jetties protected by breakwaters were built at Sekondi and Accra, for the use of surf boats and lighters.

Sekondi has been replaced by a deep-water harbour a few miles to the westward at Takoradi, which was opened to shipping in 1928. The harbour is 220 acres in extent and provides moorings for eight ocean-going ships, whilst four can be berthed alongside the main wharf, which contains a large manganese-loading transporter, and also a bauxite loading plant. There is a fifth berth for local coal traffic and an additional berth and overhead conveyor plant for bauxite.

Mail and Steamship Services between the United Kingdom and the Gold Coast are maintained by Messrs. Elder Dempster Lines, Limited, the United Africa Company, Limited, and John Holt and Company, Limited.

A comprehensive scheme, the development of Takoradi Harbour, is at present being undertaken. The development will provide for lighter wharves for the loading of logs and sawn timber and two additional berths for ocean-going ships, together with improved facilities for the discharge of oil and the bunkering of vessels. Improved facilities for the storage of cargo and the marshalling of trains will also be provided.

As from the 1st April, 1950, control of all ports and lighthouses in the Gold Coast has been transferred to the Railway Administration.

**Air**

The Gold Coast is connected with the United Kingdom on the B.O.A.C. trunk route between Great Britain and West Africa. It has direct connection with the United States of America and South Africa on the Pan-American World Airways system, and is also visited by Portuguese and French air lines. The West African Airways Corporation operates a coastal service to Dakar, where the British South American Airways and other international air lines may be joined, and has recently commenced a service from Accra to Khartoum.

Accra is the West African terminus of the trunk air route operated by the British Overseas Airways Corporation between the United Kingdom and West Africa. It is an International Civil Customs Airport situated 44 miles north-east of Accra. In addition to the B.O.A.C. and West African Airways Corporation’s services, it is used by the Pan-American World Airways service from New York to Johannesburg, by the Portuguese air service between Lisbon and Laurencio Marques, and by Air-France service between Dakar and Brazzaville. There is accommodation for passengers at an hotel on the Airport.

There are three other airfields—at Takoradi, Kumasi and Tamale; these are used by internal services and charter flights. All have tarred surfaces.

**Posts and Telegraphs**

Mails between the Gold Coast and other British Colonies on the West Coast, and the United Kingdom, are exchanged frequently by vessels of Elder Dempster Lines, Limited, and at irregular intervals by vessels of other lines. Mails are exchanged overland with Togoland under French Trusteeship and the French Ivory Coast. Air mails to and from all parts of the world are exchanged several times weekly by British Overseas Airways Corporation and twice weekly by Pan-American Airways. There is also a weekly service to the Gambia, Sierra Leone and Dakar by West African Airways Corporation and a twice weekly service by Air France to all French possessions in West Africa. The frequency of the internal airmail service is:—between Accra and Takoradi, 5 times weekly; between Accra and Kumasi, 6 times weekly; and twice weekly between Accra and Tamale.
There are 92 post offices and 305 postal agencies. Distribution of mails is effected principally by rail and motor. When this is not possible a runner service is employed.

There are 4,918 miles of telegraph line wire serving all the principal centres. There are 21,871 miles of telephone wire including overhead and underground cable circuits in use which link up 210 exchanges and call offices throughout the country, in addition to 36 multicoins telephone boxes. Passenger or cargo vessels entering Takoradi harbour can be connected to the Colony telephone, telegraph and phonogram system. There are about 6,146 telephones in operation including those in Government offices, and extensions to the system are in progress.

Parcel post despatches are exchanged direct with the United Kingdom, South Africa, with other British colonies and Togoland in West Africa. Parcels for other countries are forwarded through the United Kingdom. The C.O.D. service from the United Kingdom is extensive.

There are aeronautical telecommunication stations at Accra, Takoradi, Kumasi and Tamale.

Ships are provided with wireless telegraph and navigational beacon services from Takoradi.

There are eight wireless stations maintained for internal telegraph service.

Cable and Wireless, Limited, operate the cable station at Accra where submarine cables connect the Gold Coast with countries all over the world.

Cable & Wireless, Ltd., also operate radio telephone services to the United Kingdom, Eire, Nigeria, Sierra Leone, etc., connections being made to all the important centres in the Gold Coast over the telephone network.

British imperial postal orders are issued and paid, and an inland and foreign money order system is also in operation. A telegraph money order service with the United Kingdom is available.

There is a direct parcel post service from the United States of America to the Gold Coast by air and sea.

**PUBLIC FINANCE**

The funded debt of the Gold Coast amounts to £8,410,000, and at the 31st March, 1950, the total of the statutory sinking funds or the redemption of public loans stood at £2,008,847. There are no local loan issues. There is also the sum of £1,072,743 in a Supplementary Sinking Fund. The main heads of taxation are Customs and Excise and Income Tax, the yield from these sources in the financial year 1949–50 being £11,069,271 and £3,440,816 respectively, out of a total revenue of £18,106,495.

The Customs Tariff is non-preferential.

The following articles are liable to a specific rate of import duty, or the ad valorem rate quoted, whichever is the higher:

(a) Cotton Piece Goods:
   Printed, dyed, coloured, pile fabrics, tents, handkerchiefs and towels ... 10%

(b) Artificial Silk Piece Goods:
   Pile fabrics, tents and handkerchiefs ... 10%

(c) Apparel:
   Cardigans, shirts, singlets and hosiery ... 15%

(d) Oils, edible ... 15%

(e) Spirits, not potable, other than methylated and perfumed ... 20%

(f) Umbrellas and parasols ... 20%

(g) Spirits, not potable, perfumed ... 66½%

The following articles, among others, are liable to a specific rate of import duty:

(a) Beer.

(b) Cotton Piece Goods:
   Grey, white and interlock fabric.

(c) Motor vehicles other than commercial lorries.

(d) Oils, illuminating, lubricating and motor spirit.

(e) Certain provisions, including flour, coffee, saccharine and tea.

(f) Soap.

(g) Spirits.

(h) Tobacco.

(i) Wines.

All other articles, unless specifically exempted, are liable to an ad valorem import duty of 20 per cent., except the following, on which the ad valorem rate indicated is charged:

Newsprint ... 7¼%
Electric Storage Batteries ... 10%
Paints, Colours, Varnishes, etc. ... 10%
Confectionery ... 33⅓%
Perfumery ... 66⅔%

The following products are liable to export duties:

Cocoa, Diamonds, Manganese Ore and certain kinds of timber.

| Year | Revenue | Expenditure |
|------|---------|-------------|
| 1940-41 | 3,868,830 | 3,871,624 |
| 1941-42 | 4,141,186 | 3,598,777 |
| 1942-43 | 4,331,894 | 4,153,883 |
| 1943-44 | 4,720,394 | 4,560,274 |
| 1944-45 | 5,866,665 | 4,534,612 |
| 1945-46 | 7,171,618 | 6,039,855 |
| 1946-47 | 7,567,589 | 6,630,140 |
| 1947-48 | 10,245,618 | *10,965,604 |
| 1948-49 | 11,639,324 | 11,487,703 |
| 1949-50 | 18,106,495 | 14,143,541 |

*Includes £1,000,000 transferred to a supplementary sinking fund.

**CURRENCY AND BANKING**

Prior to 1912 and 1913 the currency consisted chiefly of British gold (comparatively rare), silver and copper. In 1912, subsidiary nickel-bronze coins (1d., ½d. and ¼d. pieces) were introduced, and in 1913 a special silver currency, common to all the British West African colonies, of the same weight and fineness as the corresponding British coins. The coins issued are 2s., 1s., 6d. and 3d. pieces. Owing to the great increase in the demand for currency and the difficulties in obtaining adequate supplies, it was found necessary in 1915...
to make British treasury notes legal tender, and in 1916 special West African currency notes were introduced. 20s. and 10s. notes are the only values now in circulation, £5, 2s. and 1s. notes having been withdrawn. In 1920, owing to the rapid disappearance of silver coins, an alloy coinage was introduced of the same denominations as the silver coins; and silver has now practically been withdrawn from circulation. In 1939 an improved type of alloy coin of the 2s., 1s., and 6d. denominations and a new threepenny-piece of nickel-bronze were introduced. The special West African currency silver and alloy coins and the West African currency notes are under the management of the West African Currency Board and are secured by sterling securities held by the Board. Current British gold and silver coins, West African currency silver and alloy coins, West African currency notes, and West African nickel-bronze coins are all legal tender.

The Bank of British West Africa, Ltd., opened at Accra on 1st January, 1897, and has branches at all the principal business centres in the colony. The Colonial Bank, now Barclays Bank (Dominion, Colonial and Overseas), began business at Accra in 1917, and branches have been opened at other centres. Both banks have a savings department. In 1888 a Government Savings Bank was established which is now under Post Office management. On 31st March, 1949, the amount to the credit of depositors was £3,869,495 2s. 6d.

Accounts are kept in sterling.

**Production and Trade**

The great majority of the people of the Gold Coast are engaged in agriculture, mainly of a subsistence nature. The only important export crop is cocoa, of which 263,602 tons were exported in 1949. About 38,250 men are employed in the mining of gold, diamonds, manganese and bauxite. There are as yet few large factories in the Gold Coast. There is an important brewery in Accra, and there are large sawmills at Accra, Sekondi, Kumasi, Dunkwa, Oda, Atakpem, and in other parts of the country. A cocoa-butter factory at Takoradi began production during 1948.

The Industrial Development Corporation, a Government-sponsored organisation which was set up in October, 1947, with the object of establishing new industries and developing existing industrial undertakings, began work in 1948. Three limited companies have so far been formed, including a weaving business with semi-automatic looms and a soap works, each with a nominal capital of £10,000, while other projects receiving assistance from the Corporation include a laundry in Accra, a cassava processing business and a brick and tile work in Cape Coast and a sawmill in Kumasi.

Fishing is carried on at all the towns and villages on the coast, and inland along the rivers. A number of powered craft for sea-fishing were introduced during 1948.

There is a very considerable export trade in timber, mahogany being the principal species exported. The chief exports in 1949 were as follows:

| Produce and Unit | Quantity | Value |
|------------------|----------|-------|
| Cocoa            | ton      | 263,602 | 34,018,871 |
| Gold             | f.o.t.   | 656,431 | 6,413,825 |
| Manganese ore    | dry ton  | 741,069 | 4,006,079 |
| Bauxite          | ton      | 145,013 | 274,857 |
| Diamonds         | carat    | 963,435 | 1,390,636 |
| Timber — unmanufactured | cu. ft. | 7,539,627 | 2,165,551 |
| Palm kernels     | ton      | 2,895   | 69,180 |
| Rubber, raw      | lb.      | 873,247 | 33,073 |
| Copra            | ton      | 535     | 18,291 |
| Lime products:—  |          |         |       |
| Lime juice       | gal.     | 121,874 | 12,222 |
| Lime oil         | gal.     |         |       |
| Lime fruits (fresh) | lb.   | 623,409 | 5,632 |
| Palm oil         | ton      | 258     | 23,998 |
| Hides and skins:—|          |         |       |
| Cattle untanned  | ton      | 61      | 3,040 |
| Other kinds      | ton      | 16      | 3,402 |
| Coffee, raw      | lb.      | 467,508 | 12,815 |
| Kola nuts        | lb.      | 13,270,197 | 134,716 |

The value of the import trade, sea-borne and overland, in 1949 (exclusive of specie and currency notes) was £44,432,165, the principal imports being tobacco (all kinds), cotton piece goods, artificial silks, provisions, machinery, iron and steel manufactures, motor vehicles, tyres, medicines and drugs, fuel oil and motor spirit and cement.

### Imports

| Year | From U.K. | From Other British Countries. | From Elsewhere. | Total. |
|------|-----------|-------------------------------|-----------------|--------|
| 1940 | £4,640,607 | £867,938                      | £2,122,738      | £7,631,283 |
| 1941 | £3,739,084 | £1,014,633                     | £1,514,889      | £6,268,606 |
| 1942 | £5,787,290 | £1,836,945                     | £2,253,063      | £9,877,298 |
| 1943 | £6,391,034 | £1,364,326                     | £2,412,206      | £10,167,566 |
| 1944 | £5,841,938 | £1,418,808                     | £2,567,348      | £9,828,094 |
| 1945 | £5,867,597 | £1,270,865                     | £2,965,478      | £10,103,940 |
| 1946 | £8,423,087 | £1,492,332                     | £2,718,193      | £12,633,612 |
| 1947 | £11,380,542| £2,313,579                     | £7,787,637      | £21,481,758 |
| 1948 | £17,646,353| £2,768,919                     | £8,743,435      | £29,158,707 |
| 1949 | £27,098,848| £3,322,473                     | £13,752,791     | £44,174,112 |
