KENYA

SITUATION AND AREA

The territory comprised under the name of "Kenya Colony and Protectorate," previously known as the East African Protectorate, extends from approximately latitude 4° N. to latitude 4° S. and from longitude 34° E. to 41° E. It is bounded on the North by the Sudan and Abyssinia, on the East by the Indian Ocean and Somalia, on the South by Tanganyika and on the West by Uganda.

Kenya includes parts of two of the great African lakes, Victoria Nyanza and Lake Rudolf; the land area is approximately 219,730 square miles and the water area 5,230 square miles, making a total of 224,960 square miles. This total area is made up of the following:

| Square Miles |
|--------------|
| Native areas (including native settlement areas) | 52,041 |
| Crown forests | 4,742 |
| Townships, reserves, &c. | 329 |
| Other Government reserves | 292 |
| Alienated land and land available for alienation | 12,495 |
| Northern Frontier, Turkana and extension from Uganda | 115,393 |
| Unclassified areas | 34,438 |
| Lakes | 5,230 |

Total | 224,960 |

CLIMATE

The climate of Kenya varies greatly, and may best be described by division into three general climatic zones: (1) the coast and its immediate hinterland; (2) the low plain between 300 feet and 2,000 feet from the Somalia and Abyssinian borders to the north and east of the highlands, comprising two-thirds of the area of the Colony, and (3) the highlands.

The coast has an average temperature of 80° F., and an annual rainfall of between 40 inches and 50 inches, over half of which falls in the rainy season of April to June. Zone (2) is mainly a very dry area, with an average annual rainfall of between 5 inches and 20 inches most of which falls in April to May or October to December, and with hot days and cool nights.

The highlands vary in altitude from 3,000 feet to 10,000 feet, with higher mountains such as Kenya (17,041 feet) and Elgon (14,178 feet), and enjoy a climate which is considered generally healthy for Europeans. The average temperature varies 3° F. per 1,000 feet in altitude from about 70° F. at 4,000 feet to 52° F. at 10,000 feet; at Nairobi the mean maximum and minimum temperatures are 78° F. and 57° F. respectively. Frosts may occur over 7,000 feet. The annual rainfall is mainly between 40 inches and 60 inches, but according to altitude and other factors may vary between about 30 inches and nearly 100 inches. The rainy seasons are March to May and October to December east of the Aberdare Mountains and March to September elsewhere, but near Lake Victoria there is no pronounced dry season.

GENERAL DESCRIPTION

The Northern part of Kenya, comprising about three-fifths of the whole, is arid and semi-desert. The Southern part, in which almost all economic production is at present centred, comprises a low-lying coastal strip and a plateau of a mean elevation of about 5,000 feet above sea-level.

This area includes the great volcanic mountains of Mount Kenya (17,041 feet), Mount Elgon (14,178 feet), the Aberdare Range (about 12,000 to 13,000 feet) and part of the Great Rift Valley which is 30 to 40 miles wide and forms a continuous depression in places 2,000 to 3,000 feet below the level of the country bounding it on either side.

The capital of Kenya and the seat of Government is Nairobi which is situated on the edge of the Athi Plains at an elevation of about 5,400 feet above sea-level. The city is roughly halfway by railway between the seaport of Mombasa and the Uganda border, and is administered by a city council.

The non-native population as at 25th February, 1948, was — Europeans, 10,830; Asians and other non-natives, 43,749; Somalis, 513; while 64,397 Africans were enumerated in the census held on 23rd August, 1948, giving a total population of 119,489.

Mombasa is the principal port, administered by a municipal board, and has a total population of 84,746; this includes 2,027 Europeans, 23,847 Indians, 13,485 Arabs and 2,534 other non-natives enumerated in the census of 25th February, 1948, together with 42,853 Africans enumerated in the African census of 23rd August, 1948. Persons in transit at the date of the census are not included in these figures. Mombasa is an island of about seven square miles in area and has two harbours. Mombasa harbour is on the eastern side and Kilindini harbour to the south-west. There is a light house and signal station at the entrance to the port.

Other towns having municipal status are Nakuru in the centre of the European farming district, Kisumu situated on Lake Victoria, and Eldoret.

POPULATION

The de facto civil non-native population (excluding persons in transit and Polish refugees living in official camps) as at 25th February, 1948, was as follows:

| Population Type | Number |
|-----------------|--------|
| Europeans       | 29,660 |
| Indians         | 90,528 |
| Goans           | 7,159  |
| Arabs           | 24,174 |
| Other non-natives | 3,325 |

Total non-natives | 154,846 |

The African population as at 23rd August, 1948, was 5,218,232

Total de facto population | 5,373,078 |

There were 2,604 persons in transit and 187 Polish refugees living in official camps recorded in the census schedules on the night of 25th February, 1948.

On the coast the Arabs and Swahilis predominate; further inland are races speaking Bantu languages, and non-Bantu tribes, such as the Nilotic Kavirondo, the Nandi, the Kipsigis, the Suk, the Turkana, the Masai, the Somali and the Galla.

RELIGION

Indigenous religious beliefs were animistic; Mohammedanism had established itself on the coast before the coming of British rule, and has more recently established itself in Nairobi and other towns up-country. Mohammedanism also prevails among certain of the tribes of the Northern Frontier Province. A number of Christian
missionary societies have been at work in the Colony and Protectorate, and African Christian churches in full communion with the historic churches have been established; it is estimated that the total African Christian community is of the order of 300,000. The principal Christian Missionary Bodies are the Africa Inland Mission, the Church Missionary Society, the Methodist Missionary Society, the Church of Scotland Mission, the Society of Friends' Africa Mission, the Bible Churchmen's Missionary Society, the Salvation Army, and the Seventh Day Adventist Mission. There are three Roman Catholic missionary organisations in the Colony: the Mill Hill, Consolata, and Holy Ghost Missions. In addition to their purely pastoral activities, these church organisations are responsible for large educational systems which range from schools providing, without Government grant, an elementary vernacular education. In association with local and central government, and with varying degrees of grant-in-aid, there is a system of primary education, secondary education, and senior secondary education, successful scholars from the last-named passing on to Makerere College, Uganda. Missions are also responsible for a large share in African teacher training, both for men and women teachers. Missions also conduct hospitals, maternity centres, welfare institutions, and dispensaries, some of which are in receipt of small government grants.

There are organised European congregations, this work being done for the most part by the Anglican and Roman Catholic Churches. The Roman Catholic Church ministers to the Goan community, which is predominantly Roman Catholic, and the non-Roman Churches have a small work among Indians, who otherwise provide for themselves their own mosques and temples.

There is a small immigrant Jewish community which has its headquarters in Nairobi, where a synagogue has been built.

**HISTORY**

The eastern and north-eastern boundaries were originally defined along the Juba River by an agreement with Italy (1891), but upon the cession of Jubaland to Italy in 1925, a commission was appointed to adjust these boundaries. The northern boundary is defined by an agreement with Abyssinia in 1947 which supersedes the original agreement of 1908.

The Protectorate is a strip of land extending ten miles inland along the coast from Tanganyika to Kipini and the islands of the Lamu Archipelago and consists of the mainland dominions of the Sultan of Zanzibar, in respect of which a rent of £10,000 per annum is paid to His Highness.

The original concession was made to a company, subsequently called the Imperial British East Africa Company, but the territory was transferred in 1895 to His Majesty's Government, and the whole Protectorate was placed under the control of a Commissioner and Commander-in-chief. It was transferred, in 1905, from the authority of the Foreign Office to that of the Colonial Office. By an Order in Council dated 9th November, 1906, the Protectorate was placed under a Governor and Commander-in-chief, and the Order in Council of 22nd October, 1906, constituted executive and legislative councils. The frontiers were defined by agreements with Germany (1890 and 1893) and Italy (1891). All foreign consular jurisdiction was, during the year 1908, transferred to the British court.

By the "Kenya Annexation Order in Council, 1920", the territories outside the mainland dominions of the Sultan of Zanzibar were established as a colony. This Order in Council came into operation on 23rd July, 1920, and the Sultan's mainland dominions are now styled the Protectorate of Kenya, whilst the remaining territory is known as the Colony of Kenya.

**CONSTITUTION**

Under the Royal Instructions dated 29th March, 1934, amended on 27th April, 1948; the Executive Council of the Colony consists of the Chief Secretary and Member for Development, Attorney General and Member for Law and Order, Financial Secretary and Member for Finance, Chief Native Commissioner and Member for African Affairs, Member for Agriculture and Natural Resources, Deputy Chief Secretary and Member for Education, Member for Health and Local Government (ex-officio members), and such other persons as the Governor may appoint, whether holding public office or not, who shall be styled Appointed Members, or appointed as temporary members with the Governor as President. There are at present five such appointed members, one of whom is an official. It is further provided that the Legislative Council of the colony shall consist of the Governor as President, a Vice-President and Speaker, the 7 ex-officio members of Executive Council, 9 nominated official members, 1 Arab elected member, 11 elected European members, not more than 5 Indian elected members, such persons as the Governor may appoint as nominated unofficial members to represent the African community (at present, they are 4 in number), and one nominated unofficial member to represent the Arab community, thus giving Council an unofficial majority.

By the "Kenya Protectorate Order in Council, 1920," it was provided that the Governor of the Colony should be Governor of the Protectorate, that the Executive Council of the Colony should be deemed to be the Executive Council of the Protectorate, and that it should be lawful for the Legislative Council of the Colony to legislate for the Protectorate. The Supreme Court is situated at Nairobi, and sessions are also held at Mombasa, Nakuru, Eldoret, Kisumu, Nyeri and various other places. In all cases to which natives are parties local ideas and customs are considered. The legal status of slavery has been abolished throughout the Colony and Protectorate.

The 1924 ordinance governing the election of European, Indian and Arab members to the Legislative Council was consolidated and amended in 1935, but not brought into operation until 1937, when new registers of voters were compiled for the general elections which took place in 1938. Under amendments to the 1924 ordinance the boundaries of several of the 11 European electoral areas had been altered, and certain areas renamed. These were continued in the 1935 ordinance, which, however, provided for three Indian electoral areas (two each to return two members and the other one) in place of the whole country forming one constituency returning five members. Temporary legislation was introduced during 1948 for the reservation of two of these seats for Moslems. For Arabs, the whole country is still one constituency. The Indian and Arab franchise, like the European, is adult (over 21 years) suffrage, except that in the latter
case it is made subject to the ability to write Arabic or Swahili in Arabic characters. The next general election is due in 1952.

By the enactment in 1924 of the Native Authority Amendment Ordinance a considerable measure of local self-government was conferred on Local Native Councils in the Colony. This Ordinance was replaced in 1937 by a new Ordinance with the same title. Those sections of the latter dealing with local native councils have been superseded by the African District Councils Ordinance, 1950, which will confer on African local government bodies similar powers and procedure to those exercised by non-African local authorities. There are now twenty-six Local Native Councils exercising powers of raising their own revenues by rates, engaging staff, undertaking works, and promoting the welfare of the inhabitants within their areas. They also possess powers of passing local legislation regulating health, agriculture, law and order, public works, and other subjects. Local Government Ordinances passed in 1928 in replacement of earlier legislation provide for local government in municipalities and the Settled Areas.

**Administration**

The Colony and Protectorate is divided into five provinces and one extra-provincial district, viz.:

- **The Nyanza Province** (comprises the districts of North Nyanza, South Nyanza, Central Nyanza, and Kericho).
- **The Rift Valley Province** (comprises the districts of Nakuru, Baringo, Laikipia, Samburu, Nandi, Usain Gishu, Elgeyo-Marakwet, Trans Nzoia and West Suk).
- **The Central Province** (comprises the districts of Nairobi, Kiambu, Thika, Fort Hall, Nyeri, Nanyuki, Embu, Meru, Machakos and Kitui).
- **The Coast Province** (comprises the districts of Kwale, Mombasa, Teita, Kilifi, Tana River and Lamu).
- **The Northern Province** (comprises the districts of Isiolo, Marsabit, Moyale, Wajir, Garissa and Turkana).
- **The Masai District** (comprises the districts of Narok and Kajiado).

**Post-War Reorganisation**

In order to meet efficiently and expeditiously the complexity of post-war conditions and problems of development and reconstruction, plans for the reorganisation of the Government were set on foot early in 1945. Decentralisation of the work hitherto canalised along traditional lines to the Chief Secretary was effected by the institution of a system of organising departments in groups under members of the Executive Council.

Under this system the Chief Secretary became "Chief Secretary and Member for Development and Reconstruction". By Government Notice No. 674 of 1st August, 1945, an Authority for Development and Reconstruction was established, with the Chief Secretary as Chairman and Sir Reginald Edwin Robins, General Manager of the Kenya and Uganda Railways and Harbours (now Commissioner for Transport, East Africa High Commission), and Sir Alfred Vincent, M.C.A., as members. The main powers and duties of the authority are to organise and superintend the execution of works and projects of reconstruction and development in accordance with approved plans communicated to it, and for that purpose to give directions to all departments or groups of departments of the Government. The establishment of the authority is reflected in the division of the estimates into two parts, the first part consisting of the ordinary budget of revenue and expenditure of the Colony and Protectorate, the second part comprising a Development and Reconstruction Fund, expenditure from which is controlled by the authority within the framework of the estimates of the authority as approved by the Legislative Council.

The Development Committee which prepared the Development Plan realised that the time would come when the Plan would require amendment and readjustment and recommended that at this juncture the Authority should form a Planning Committee to revise the Development Programme. That time had come and accordingly towards the end of 1948 a Planning Committee was set up composed of two officials and four unofficials in addition to the members of the Authority. The official Members of Executive Council are at present engaged in revising existing schemes and preparing new schemes for submission to the Planning Committee, and it is hoped that the Committee will be able by the end of 1950 to draw up a revised Development Programme for the remainder of the ten-year period.

As part of this devolution of authority a Member for Health and Local Government was appointed to take charge of the medical and local government departments and to represent these departments on the Executive and Legislative Councils. The Member has since also assumed responsibility for education. It has now been recommended by the Governor in Council that a Local Government Board shall not be established as was originally intended, but that the existing standing Committees for local Government shall be retained with unabated powers, and that many of the powers which were to have been exercised by the proposed Local Government Board shall be exercised by the Member. Local Native Councils will be reconstituted as African district councils with powers and procedure similar to those of municipal authorities and district councils in the settled areas, and an African District Councils Bill to give effect to this has now become law.

In health matters the Member is the channel of communication between the Medical Department and the Government, and exercises a general supervision over the work of the department. He was at first the Chairman of the Hospital Authority set up to govern European hospitalisation but by the terms of an Ordinance recently passed, the Members of the Hospital Authority have been given the power to appoint their own Chairman. Municipal authorities are already public health authorities; and other local authorities will increasingly assume public health responsibilities.

A third change has been to designate the Attorney General as the Member for Law and Order, and he is responsible for all that title implies. The fourth appointment has been that of a Member for Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Natural Resources, who co-ordinates and lays down a general policy for the departments concerned with agriculture, veterinary services, forestry, game, soil and water conservation, research, and settlement, the latter including the settlement and re-settlement of Africans in the native lands, schemes for further European settlement, and investigations into the possibilities of Indian and Arab settlement. The Financial Secretary is now the Member for Finance.
Much of the administrative work hitherto performed by the Chief Secretary was transferred to the Deputy Chief Secretary, who has a seat on the Executive Council as well as on the Legislative Council. Much of the latter's work in turn now falls on the Administrative Secretary. The post of Secretary for Commerce and Industry, established shortly after the War, has recently been redesignated "Member for Commerce and Industry" and the holder of this post has been given a seat on the Executive Council as an Appointed Member.

**SOCIAL SERVICES**

**Education**

Schools for Europeans, Indians, Goans, Arabs and Africans exist in all the principal centres in the colony.

Education is compulsory for all European children between the ages of 7 and 15 years throughout the country, and for Indian boys of that age (not girls) in Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu.

| No. of Schools | Approximate No. of Pupils |
|----------------|--------------------------|
| Government European Secondary | 3 | 1,174 |
| Government European Primary | 10 | 2,331 |
| Other European | 19 | 2,014 |
| Government Indian Secondary | 6 | 2,350 |
| Government Indian Primary | 13* | 12,150 |
| Other Indian | 83 | 21,500 |
| Government Arab Secondary | 1 | 39 |
| Government Arab Primary | 6 | 950 |
| Other Arab | — | — |
| Government African Secondary | 25 | 2,971 |
| Government African Primary | 95† | 16,853 |
| Other African | 2,713 | 291,030 |

* Plus primary sections in 3 secondary schools.
† Including Local Government Schools.

Education fees are as follows:

(a) Schools for European children.

**Tuition—**

- Pupils in classes up to and including the seventh standard
  - Per term. Sh. 60
- Pupils in classes above the seventh standard
  - Per term. Sh. 150

**Boarding—**

- Pupils in classes up to and including the seventh standard
  - Per term. Sh. 400
- Pupils in classes above the seventh standard
  - Per term. Sh. 480

For the second child in a family a reduction of Sh. 40 is allowed. For the third or subsequent child in a family a reduction of Sh. 80 is allowed.

(b) Schools for Indian children.

**Tuition—**

| Standards I and II | Boys Sh. 12 | Girls Sh. 12 |
| Standards III and IV | 24 | 15 |
| Standards V, VI and VII | 36 | 27 |
| Forms 1 and 2 | 48 | 48 |
| Forms 3 and 4 | 90 | 60 |

**Information Services**

The Kenya Information Office was established at the outbreak of war and has operated since then under that title until the middle of 1948 when its name was changed to that of "Press Liaison and African Information Services". The main function of the office is the mass education of Africans and the preparation of material for this purpose on behalf of various Government departments.

The services provided by the office fall roughly into the following heads:

**Press**

All official communiques and handouts are issued to the European, African and Asian press through the office. Articles on the work of Government departments and matters of general interest are prepared for local press use and for overseas. Two weekly newsletters are prepared, one for overseas use and one for the African vernacular press. A summary of opinions on African affairs expressed in the local press is prepared fortnightly and distributed for information only on a limited distribution list to those interested in African affairs.

**Publications**

Booklets, pamphlets and leaflets are published locally on matters of educational interest for Africans in the Colony. The "K.I.O. Fortnightly"—a bulletin containing matters of interest to European farmers, Government notices, etc.—is distributed to 4,000 addresses. "Pamoja" a Swahili broadsheet for Africans containing background on world affairs and general educational articles is published weekly and 18,000 copies distributed.

Assistance in money and material is given to five district news sheets.

**Broadcasting**

Broadcasts to Africans are given daily from a studio in the office and transmitted throughout Kenya by Messrs. Cable and Wireless, Ltd. These are given in Swahili on five days of the week and once a week in Kikuyu. Special broadcasts such as running commentaries on the more important football matches and athletic meetings are given periodically as well as regular quiz competitions, radio plays and other features.

Three local broadcasts in Swahili are given each week from a studio in Mombasa. Funds for this service and material for the broadcasts are provided by the office.

The office owns and maintains some hundred wireless sets which are distributed to community centres, information rooms, district headquarters, missions, schools, etc., for communal listening to its programmes by Africans.

**Still Photographs**

The office has a library of some 10,000 photographs on almost every aspect of Kenya life. This is available to the general public, visiting journalists, etc., and much use is made of it.

Filmstrips for use by Africans are prepared regularly on general educational matters and distributed to the sixty filmstrip projectors owned and maintained by the office in community centres throughout the Colony. These are operated by Social Welfare Workers who have been trained by the Information Services staff.
Photographs are issued to many parts of the world for exhibition purposes and for use in illustrated papers. Photographs are also supplied to Kenya Government departments, for use at agricultural shows and other exhibitions in the Colony.

All social halls, community centres, etc., are supplied with sets of photographs, fully captioned for wall display.

Cine Films

The office has attached to it a Films Technician from the Colonial Film Unit and by this means produces its own 16 mm. cine films, primarily for the education of Africans, as well as news reels and occasional films for entertainment. These films are used by the Mobile Information Units and some seventy projector posts throughout the Colony.

A film library of sound and silent films, supplied by the Central Office of Information, London, and the Colonial Film Unit, are distributed in a similar manner.

The office also distributes 35-mm. British news films to the commercial cinemas in Kenya. These are supplied by the Central Office of Information.

Field work

Four Mobile Information Units are attached to Provincial Commissioners, in the four main provinces. They are constantly on safari, working under the direction of the Provincial Administration, giving cinema shows in the evenings, and lectures supported by filmstrip shows during the daytime. The majority of the shows are for Africans but European and Asian schools also receive visits from time to time.

Each Unit gives about 250 shows per year.

Despatch and Distribution

In addition to its own publications the office distributes some 7,800 copies of each issue of the Colonial Office publication in Swahili and English, "Siku Hizi" free to community centres, schools, information rooms, district headquarters, missions, employers of large labour forces and individual Africans. Posters, booklets, ebonoids, articles, photo sets, etc., received from the Colonial Office and Central Office of Information are also distributed to various lists of addressees in the Colony, selected according to the type of material.

The average weekly output amounts to more than 30,000 items.

Health

The medical services of the Colony and Protectorate are administered through various agencies. The Government Medical Department is responsible for formulating general medical policy and for the control and treatment of infectious diseases.

The Medical Department administers the majority of native hospitals in townships and reserves where, however, the capital cost of the erection of maternity wards and dispensaries is borne by Local Native Councils who also contribute to the construction of maternity wards at departmental hospitals in their areas. Local Native Councils also provide staff and medical stores for their rural dispensaries. Outside the reserves Municipal Authorities, e.g., Nairobi, provide health clinics and, in some instances, maternity hospitals for Africans. Monies for such purposes are available from Local Native Trust Funds. Facilities for treatment and hospitalization of Africans are also provided by missions subsidized by Government. Approximately 5,574 beds, including maternity, are available for Africans.

The European hospitals at Nairobi and Kisumu (as well as the Mental Hospital at Mathari near Nairobi catering for all races) are controlled by the Medical Department. In all, 323 beds are available for European in-patients throughout the Colony. The European Hospital Authority administers hospitals at Mombasa, Nyeri, Eldoret and Kitale while at Nakuru the War Memorial Hospital is maintained separately by local subscribers under an insurance scheme. The European Hospital Authority Scheme entails compulsory contributions from all European tax-payers in the form of a Hospital Tax at varying rates so that accommodation is available at low charges. Patients admitted to the hospitals at Nairobi, Kisumu and Nakuru are partially reimbursed by the Hospital Authority.

There are three European private nursing and maternity homes in Nairobi, as well as a children's hospital. The City Council of Nairobi provides one European nursery school and another is located at the Lady Northey Home where expectant and nursing mothers are also accommodated. Both these bodies provide child welfare clinics in Nairobi.

There are 151 beds for Asian patients in Government hospitals throughout the country. In Nairobi, in addition to the Lady Grigg Indian Maternity Home, accommodation is available at one private maternity home and at one private Asian nursing home in Nairobi and Mombasa. The Local Councils administer child welfare and maternal clinics. With the exception of the larger towns where they are administered by local authorities, health services, including port health administration, are the sole concern of Government.

The Government Medical Research Laboratory in Nairobi operates throughout the Colony and Protectorate and manufactures vaccines and other preparations. It comprises several divisions and also accommodates the Government Analytical Chemist. Examinations and reports are available to all medical practitioners. Smaller laboratories are present at all Government hospitals. Private laboratory facilities are also available at Nairobi and Eldoret.

Labour

The Labour Department was reorganised and expanded at the beginning of 1946 and is responsible for the inspection of the conditions of labour and the administration of the labour laws of the Colony. Labour officers are posted in most of the important labour centres and, in addition to their inspectorate duties, intervene when required in cases of labour difficulties or disputes. The laws of the Colony in consonance with international conventions provide for certain minimum conditions under which workers may be employed.

At 30th November, 1949, 296,762 men were employed on monthly contracts and in addition 8,860 were enlisted in H.M. Forces. In addition some 37,159 families were residing on farms under contract, the adult males of which work for the farm occupiers for a limited period in each year.

Up to 19,470 men, women and juveniles were also at times employed as daily paid casual labour.
Further information with regard to labour services can be obtained from the annual reports of the Labour Department, obtainable from the Government Printer.

Welfare

The Social Welfare organisation is not a separate Government Department, but a branch of the African Affairs group within the Secretariat. The Commissioner for Social Welfare is, therefore directly responsible to the Chief Native Commissioner, as are the officers responsible for the African Information Service, Co-operative Societies and other services largely concerned with African development. Social welfare falls into two main divisions—remedial welfare which concerns all races, and African community development.

The remedial welfare work deals with:

(a) Persons without adequate means of subsistence.
(b) Aged or infirm persons.
(c) Orphans, neglected, defective and delinquent children.
(d) Handicapped persons, blind, cripples, etc.
(e) Persons in need of advice and assistance in personal or domestic troubles.

The staff dealing with the above consists of two welfare officers—one European and one Asian lady. These officers enquire into individual cases working in close co-operation with the various voluntary welfare societies. There is a central committee composed of representatives of the various charitable societies which considers the cases of individuals who make application for assistance from a central destitute persons fund provided by Government. The various communities, however, largely accept the responsibility for the care of the more unfortunate members of their community and this branch of welfare depends very largely on the generosity of the public.

Certain municipalities now have their own welfare organisations, providing their own staff, buildings and equipment. Companies, private firms and individual farmers are now giving much attention to the provision of welfare amenities for their staffs.

Apart from a small headquarter staff, the African community development work is handled by the Administration. Ten District Welfare Officers have been appointed and are members of the District Commissioners' staff. Under them are trained African Welfare Workers. These latter are in charge of community centres set up in selected villages and are paid from local Native Council funds. The centres themselves were built with council funds assisted by Central Government. Some 69 such centres are now in operation. Each centre is run by an African Welfare Committee and usually offer classes to adults, both men and women, in literacy, English, spinning and weaving; discussions, debates, film strip and cinema shows take place; some centres now have their own small libraries, though periodicals, etc., are provided by the Information Service. Missions and various voluntary organisations give their assistance. The Commissioner for Social Welfare also controls a central Composite Training Centre where these welfare workers are trained together with other departmental staff.

Communications

Roads

The Colony's road system consists of approximately 15,850 miles of road maintained as follows:

- 4,460 by the Public Works Department.
- 2,577 by District Councils.
- 272 by Municipal Councils.
- 7,940 by Local Native Councils and the Administration.

In addition there are approximately 480 miles of road in the National Parks which are maintained by the National Parks Trustees and in the Forest Areas approximately 100 miles of road are maintained by the Forestry Department.

218 miles of the Public Works Department roads are bitumen surfaced.

The Great Trunk Road passes through Kenya entering the Colony from Tanganyika at Namanga and passing through Nairobi, Nakuru and Kisumu and on to cross the border into Uganda at Busia. The section, approximately 100 miles of this road, between Nairobi and Nakuru has been bituminised and work is at present in progress on a newly aligned section, approximately 16 miles in length, to the west of Nakuru. The survey of the next section of the road westward to Londiani has been completed.

A scheme is in hand for the improvement of the alignment of the road leading northwards from Thika to Fort Hall and the field survey is now in progress.

The road from Nairobi to Limuru has been realigned and given an 18-foot wide bituminous surface and work is at present in progress on the realignment of the six miles of road leading north from Nairobi to Kiambu.

Work on the realignment of the road from Mombasa to Mackinnon Road (55 miles) is also being carried out and eight miles of bitumen surface have already been opened to traffic near Mackinnon Road. The remainder of the road will not be bitumenised, however, for the present, but is being constructed to a good all-weather standard.

A programme of improvement and betterment for the more important roads of the Colony is now under way and heavy mechanical road maintenance plant has recently been acquired and is now in operation.

Shipping

The Union-Castle Mail Steamship Company maintain a regular service of passenger vessels from and to London. These ships leave London each month via the Cape and via Suez.

The British India Steam Navigation Company maintain a three-weekly service to and from London, via Suez, of passenger steamers.

The Messageries Maritimes from Marseilles to Mauritius via Madagascar call regularly at Mombasa, homewards and outwards.

Ellerman & Bucknall Steamship Co., Ltd., maintain a regular service of fast cargo-passenger vessels from U.S.A. Atlantic ports to Mombasa and return to U.S.A.

Clan Line Steamers, Ltd., maintain a regular service of fast cargo steamers from B.E.A. ports to main Australian destinations (cargo only).

Scandinavian East Africa Line from Oslo to Madagascar ports call at Mombasa, homewards and outwards. 5/6 ships are at present in operation.
The Clan-Hall-Harrison Lines (Joint Service) operate a regular outward service of fast cargo vessels from Liverpool, Glasgow and South Wales to B.E.A. ports and homewards to Avonmouth, Liverpool and Glasgow.

The Holland Afrika Lijn maintain two monthly services, one outward via Suez, one outward via the Cape, from London and Continental ports to South and East Africa calling at this port.

Indian African Line (Andrew Weir & Co.) maintain a regular service of passenger/cargo vessels, operating between South Africa and Calcutta, calling regularly en route at B.E.A. ports, Colombo and Madras.

Farrell Lines Incorporated: cargo vessels carrying up to 12 first class passengers, connect U.S.A. monthly via South African ports. Also fast new passenger liners between Durban and New York at three-weekly intervals.

The Halal Shipping Co., Ltd., small cargo vessels between Mombasa, Aden and Red Sea ports, carrying first, second and deck passengers, frequent sailings.

Robin Line connect to United States of America monthly via South African ports.

The British India Steam Navigation Company maintain a monthly mail service to Bombay of passenger and cargo vessels connecting at Bombay with the P. & O. mail steamers for England and Australia. Also a monthly service to Durban. This service operates between Durban and Mombasa only.

The Royal Inter-Ocean Lines maintain a monthly passenger service between South America, South Africa, East Africa, Malaya, Java and Japan.

A cargo service is maintained by the Silver and Java Pacific Lines from Pacific ports of Canada and U.S.A. via the Panama Canal and Gulf ports of U.S.A. to South Africa, and East African ports subject to sufficient inducement. Some of the vessels return from East African ports to Pacific ports of Canada and U.S.A. via Colombo, Singapore, Philippines, etc.

Communications between the coastal ports of the Protectorate are maintained by steamers belonging to the British India Steam Navigation Company, and Holland Afrika Lijn.

The British India Steam Navigation Company also maintain a cargo service to and from Australia.

**Railways, Rivers and Harbours**

Air Services and Posts and Telegraphs Services

(See under "East Africa High Commission.")

Public debt comprises the following loans:

| Loan Type                  | Amount (£) |
|----------------------------|------------|
| 4½ per cent 1928 Loan      | 3,500,000  |
| 4½ per cent 1930 Loan      | 3,400,000  |
| 3½ per cent 1933 Loan      | 305,600    |
| 3 per cent 1936 Loan       | 375,000    |
| 3 per cent 1945 Loan       | 600,000    |
| 2½ per cent 1946 Conversion|            |
| Loan                       | 1,820,000  |
| 2½ per cent 1948 Conversion|            |
| Loan                       | 3,710,000  |
| 2½ per cent E.A. Railways Loan | 300,000   |

The following were the chief sources of revenue for 1948:

| Source                        | Amount (£) |
|-------------------------------|------------|
| Customs and Excise             | 5,040,282  |
| Licences and taxes             | 3,081,611  |
| Fees and payments for specific services | 237,073 |
| Posts and telegraphs           | 649,337    |
| Earnings of Government Departments | 244,538 |
| Revenue from Government property | 98,758   |
| Sale of Government property    | 165,387    |
| Forest Department revenue     | 152,904    |

The following were the main headings of expenditure in 1948:

| Expenditure                  | Amount (£) |
|------------------------------|------------|
| Administration               | 1,082,589  |
| Law and order                | 611,102    |
| Defence                      | 832,859    |
| Finance                      | 3,862,540  |
| Education                    | 770,644    |
| Posts and telegraphs         | 649,285    |
| Agriculture                  | 1,093,511  |
| Health and Local Government  | 1,286,085  |
| Public Works                 | 778,278    |

**Currency and Banking**

The standard coin is the East African shilling (cupro nickel) with subsidiary coinage of the following denominations: 50 cents (cupro nickel) and 10 cents, 5 cents and 1 cent (bronze). A note issue is maintained and notes of the following denominations are in circulation: Shs. 10,000, Shs. 1,000, Shs. 200, Shs. 100, Shs. 20, Shs. 10, Shs. 5 and Shs. 1 (Shs. 200 and Sh. 1 notes are no longer issued).

The currency is controlled by the East African Currency Board, London, which replaced the old local Board of Currency Commissioners in 1921. The Board is represented in the East African Territories (Kenya, Uganda, Tanganyika and Zanzibar) by local Currency Officers.

The National Bank of India, Ltd. (Head Office, 26, Bishopsgate, London) are bankers to the Government of Kenya, with branches in the Colony and Protectorate of Kenya at Mombasa, Nairobi, Nakuru, Kisumu and Kericho, and at Kampala, Entebbe, Jinja and Mbale in the Uganda Protectorate.

The Standard Bank of South Africa, Ltd. (Head Office 10, Clement's Lane, Lombard Street, London) has branches at Mombasa, Nairobi, Eldoret, Nakuru, Kisumu, Nyeri, Nanuyki, Kitale and Agency at Thika in the Colony and Protectorate of Kenya and at Kampala, Jinja and Mbale in the Uganda Protectorate.

Barclays Bank (Dominions, Colonial and Overseas) with which is amalgamated the National Bank of South Africa, Ltd., has branches at Mombasa, Nairobi, Nakuru, Kitale, Eldoret,

---

**Finance**

| Year | Revenue (£) | Expenditure (£) |
|------|-------------|-----------------|
| 1939 | 3,811,778   | 3,808,079       |
| 1940 | 4,111,412   | 4,064,465       |
| 1941 | 5,348,888   | 4,511,275       |
| 1942 | 5,595,025   | 5,341,551       |
| 1943 | 6,801,860   | 6,782,467       |
| 1944 | 7,734,333   | 7,629,088       |
| 1945 | 8,034,196   | 7,815,928       |
| 1946 | 9,057,390   | 8,795,237       |
| 1947 | 9,877,196   | 9,023,624       |
| 1948 | 11,411,664  | 10,966,893      |
| Public debt | £15,300,600 |
Kisumu, Thompson's Falls and Agency at Kilindini in the Colony and Protectorate of Kenya and at Kampala, Jinja and Mbale in the Uganda Protectorate.

**LAND AND PRODUCTS**

With altitudes varying from sea level to over 9,000 feet, Kenya lends itself to the production of a wide range of crops. In the areas above 5,000 feet coffee, tea, maize, wattle bark, pyrethrum and wheat are the principal crops. At the lower altitudes sisal, cotton and oilseeds are most important. Other crops grown in various parts of the colony include beans, potatoes, sorghums, millets, pulses, coconuts, cashew nuts, sugar cane, vegetables, fruit and essential oil plants.

Beef production, dairying, sheep, pigs and poultry play an increasingly important role in the general agricultural policy of the Colony and considerable quantities of meat, butter, hides and skin, wool and bacon are produced annually.

The local market is well supplied with the main food staples and local factories produce jams, cordials, canned fruit, sweets, biscuits, oatmeal, etc.

During the war by increasing the production of all main crops, Kenya played an important part in supplying the greatly increased wartime consumption of East Africa, due to the presence of many thousands of troops, prisoners, refugees and evacuees. During the general post-war shortage Kenya production has been maintained at a high level, but the normal internal demand has also increased substantially, thus reducing the surplus available for export. Nevertheless, the export of agricultural and animal produce reached a total value of £4,464,113 in 1948 as compared with £1,943,065 in 1938.

Fishing is carried on both on the coast and on Lake Victoria, and apart from seasonal shortages, an adequate supply is obtained for local consumption.

During the war the forests of the Colony successfully met the heavy demands of the armed forces for building timber and the considerably increased demands of the railways and of the pyrethrum and other industries for wood fuel. From the forests of the highlands important softwoods such as podo carpus and pencil cedar as well as the hardwoods E. African olive and camphor, provide the bulk of the Colony's timber supplies. Thinnings from exotic softwood and hardwood plantations, the bamboo forests up-country and the mangrove forests at the Coast provide well over two million poles per annum. A major feature of the Forest Department's development plans is a scheme, initiated in 1946 and proceeding to schedule, for the planting of 210,000 acres of exotic conifers—chiefly cypruses and pines—at the rate of 6,000 acres per annum over a rotation of 35 years. This area of plantations together with the considerable area planted prior to 1946, will bring the Colony's total to about a quarter of a million acres by 1980.

The following minerals have been located:

- **Gold.**—Has been found throughout the Nyanza Province and in the Lolgorien district of the Masai reserve. Traces of gold have been found in various areas occupied by Basement System rocks.

- **Silver.**—Is commonly associated with gold in Nyanza and also occurs in small amounts in galena ores in the Coast Province.

- **Amblygonite.**—Has been found sporadically in pegmatites in Basement System areas.

- **Apatite.**—Has been located in small concentrations near Homa Bay in Southern Kavirondo.

- **Arsenopyrite.**—Is commonly associated with the gold mineralisation of Nyanza.

- **Asbestos.**—Of anthophyllite type occurs in Basement System rocks and is worked in West Suk.

- **Barytes.**—Of good quality is found in association with lead and zinc ores in the Coast Province.

- **Beryl.**—Small amounts have been found in pegmatites particularly in Machakos.

- **Clays.**—Of meta-bentonite type have been found at Athi River, near Nairobi, and north of Mount Kenya. Ceramics clays are known in the Central and Coast Provinces.

- **Columbite.**—Sporadic occurrences of columbite-tantalite have been found in Basement System pegmatites.

- **Copper.**—Impregnations occur in association with pegmatites in the Tsavo area. Promising gold-copper deposits are being developed in South Nyanza.

- **Corundum.**—Occurs in association with a dunite intrusion near Mitio Andei (Machakos).

- **Diatomite.**—Is widespread in Pleistocene lake beds in the Rift Valley. Five large deposits are known that are estimated to contain extensive reserves of the material. One deposit near Gilgil is now being worked.

- **Felspar.**—Suitable for ceramic purposes is worked in pegmatites in Central Province.

- **Galena.**—Occurs in a barytes-base metal vein in the Coast Province and is also known as thin veins in sandstones near Mazeras (also in the Coast Province).

- **Graphite.**—Occurs in Basement System gneisses and schists, and is best known in the Machakos, Southern Kitui and Tsavo areas.

- **Gypsum.**—Is found in the Northern Frontier District especially near El-Wak and Garissa.

- **Ilmenite.**—Is widespread in areas of Basement System rocks.

- **Iron.**—Magnetite and magnetite-haematite quartzites occur in the Basement System and form a possible source of ore for future requirements. Gossans and pyritic ore bodies in the goldfields of Nyanza are an additional possible source.

- **Kyanite.**—Is found in the Machakos area and sometimes occurs in fine crystals that have been at times cut as gems. Extensive deposits of massive and unusually pure kyanite are being worked in the Taveta area (Coast Province).

- **Limestone.**—Coral and other limestones are abundant in the Coast Province, and enormous quantities of crystalline limestone are available in Basement System areas, notably near Voi, Kajiado, Machakos, the Loldaika hills, Elgeyo and Suk. Lacustrine limestones are worked near Muhoroni and carbonatites which occur in large deposits are worked at Homa Bay, in Western Kenya.

- **Manganese.**—Occurs in the Coast Province, and small deposits have been located in the Central and Rift Valley Provinces.

- **Magnesite.**—Has been exploited near Mitio Andei (Machakos). Other deposits are known in the northern frontier district.

- **Marble.**—Is being exploited near Kajiado.
Mica.—Of sheet type occurs in pegmatites, and has been worked in Central Province, West Suk, and in the Teita District.

Molybdenite.—Traces have been found in North Nyanza and near Maralal.

Monazite.—Is found in coastal beach sands.

Olivine.—Is concentrated in rivers draining from the Aberdares, and constitutes the bulk of a dunite intrusion near Mtito Andei.

Pigments.—Mineral pigments yielding yellow, chrome, brown, red and green colours are being worked in Kitui. Green pigments have been obtained in Turkana.

Pumice.—Occurs in the Rift Valley Province near Naivasha.

Pyrite.—Massive pyrite-pyrrhotite bodies have been located by diamond drilling in the Kakamega area, and pyrite veins occur on a copper-gold property in South Nyanza.

Quartz.—Of optical and piezo-electrical quality has been found in Central Province.

Quicksilver.—In the form of cinnabar has been found in the Coast Province.

Radioactive Minerals.—Small amounts have been found in pegmatites.

Rutile.—Is present in coastal sands.

Salt.—Is extracted in large quantities by the Magadi Soda Co. from the mother liquors at Lake Magadi.

Sapphire.—The corundum deposit at Mtito Andei has yielded small fragments of gem sapphire.

Sillimanite.—Schists have been discovered in the Machakos and Maralal areas, and in the Northern Frontier District.

Soapstone.—Extensive deposits are known in Southern Kavirondo. One deposit near Kitere is now being worked.

Soda.—Is being extracted in large quantities from Lake Magadi by the Magadi Soda Company.

Talc.—Deposits have been found in the Machakos and West Suk districts.

Tin.—Traces of tin occur in Trans-Nzoia, and cassiterite is an accessory mineral in the Kisii sandstones.

Tungsten.—Scheelite has been found as an accessory mineral in gold-quartz veins in Central Nyanza and rarely as a prominent constituent in small veins.

Vermiculite.—Deposits have been found at various localities in the Central Province and Masai district, and in West Suk.

Zinc Blende.—Is present in small quantities in a Barytes-galena vein in the Coast Province and also as an important constituent in a gold and mixed sulphide deposit in South Nyanza.

Zircon.—Is a constituent of river sands in Nyanza and the Coast Province.

TRADE AND CUSTOMS

In 1923 identical customs tariffs were enacted in Kenya, Uganda and Tanganyika. There was a revision in 1930 and although rates have been altered from time to time mainly during the recent war, the basic structure remained unchanged until 1946 when surcharges, introduced with the object of maintaining revenue at as high a level as possible and also to discourage the consumption of commodities which could not be regarded as essential, were incorporated in the Kenya basic tariff. In 1947 the rates of duty on tobacco, cigars and cigarettes were doubled with a view to conserving dollar exchange.

The basic fiscal rate is 22 per cent. ad valorem assessed on the value which is taken as being the price which the goods would fetch on sale in the open market in the Colony if delivered at the port of importation, freight, insurance and all costs, charges and expenses having been paid by the seller. Specific duties are charged on goods which lend themselves to such a form of assessment, the more important of such goods being potable spirits, cigarettes and tobacco, motor spirit and kerosene oil, tyres and tubes, matches and cement. In the case of certain articles such as piece goods, wearing apparel and cycles, minimum specific duties have been fixed as an alternative to an ad valorem rate in order to safeguard the revenue against abnormally cheap supplies.

During the year 1948, the equivalent of the war time surcharges was removed from the import duties on certain foodstuffs, apparel, cotton piece goods, bicycles and parts, and motor cars and parts, whilst the duty on kerosene was reduced from 33½ cents per gallon to 26½ cents per gallon. The duties on certain builders' materials and requisites, including sanitaryware, were removed completely and the duty on artificial silk piece goods was reduced to half the former figure. A similar reduction took place in the duties on cocoa and chocolate (not confectionery) and on dried fruits in order to implement the undertakings given at the Geneva Conference in 1947.

The free list includes the chief development imports such as machinery; road, rail, air and water transport equipment; coal, coke and fuel oil; packing materials; explosives; insecticides and agricultural and mining equipment; and builders' requisites and sanitaryware. Exemption from duty is also allowed in the case of drugs, medicines and disinfectants; filters and refrigerators, surgical and scientific instruments; educational requisites; religious articles; music and literature and bona fide baggage brought by passengers for personal and household use.

Provision is made in the tariff for the imposition of what are known as "suspended" duties on certain commodities which are produced and manufactured in one or more of the territories—Kenya, Uganda and Tanganyika. These duties may be imposed, varied or revoked unilaterally thus allowing a modified control by each territory over the degree of protection afforded to a number of the local products.

By a tripartite Customs Agreement in 1927, a system of inter-territorial transfers of imported goods was introduced between Kenya, Uganda and Tanganyika. The effect of this agreement is virtually to remove customs barriers between the three territories the duty being credited to the receiving territory by a transfer form procedure.

The Congo Basin Treaty obligations prevent the grant of Imperial Preference.

For Kenya and Uganda, the value of trade imports (excluding imports on Government account, railway material and goods in transit and transhipment) and of exports (domestic and
foreign) and the net amount of customs receipts from all sources and the tonnage entered at Kenya ports, were as follows:

| Years | Trade Imports | Trade Exports |
|-------|---------------|--------------|
|       | £             | £            |
| 1940  | 10,456,690    | 11,965,650   |
| 1941  | 13,887,581    | 13,964,862   |
| 1942  | 12,995,961    | 14,035,440   |
| 1943  | 12,904,974    | 13,824,195   |
| 1944  | 13,946,486    | 16,086,385   |
| 1945  | 13,029,748    | 19,224,923   |
| 1946  | 20,326,471    | 20,594,311   |
| 1947  | 29,528,544    | 26,667,016   |
| 1948  | 42,010,544    | 34,240,602   |
| 1949  | 60,951,776    | 52,979,026   |

Customs Entered.

| Years | (Net Tonnage) |
|-------|---------------|
|       | £             |
| 1940  | 1,502,666     |
| 1941  | 1,939,998     |
| 1942  | 1,395,614     |
| 1943  | 1,631,677     |
| 1944  | 2,288,174     |
| 1945  | 2,244,159     |
| 1946  | 3,690,005     |
| 1947  | 4,918,701     |
| 1948  | 5,732,008     |
| 1949  | 6,738,755     |

In 1948 the main imports into Kenya and Uganda were: beer, wines and spirits, £515,060; cigarettes, cigars and tobacco, £317,706; coal, £580,619; cement, £620,988; iron sheets (galvanised and corrugated), £301,718; manufactures of base metals, £3,201,771; electrical goods and apparatus, £987,068; machinery, including agricultural, £3,169,260; cotton textiles, £7,244,410; woollen and worsted yarns and manufactures, £454,514; silk and artificial silk tissues and manufactures, £573,455; jute bags and sacks, £940,519; haberdashery and wearing apparel, £1,010,688; chemicals, drugs, dyes, paints and colours, £1,818,459; fuel oil, £1,629,711; lubricating oils and greases, £490,698; motor spirit, £1,680,752; mineral oil, illuminating or burning, £285,285; stationery and other paper manufactures, £1,010,287; motor cars, parts and accessories, £2,251,361; motor lorries, tractors, parts and accessories, £1,859,387; tyres and tubes for vehicles, £842,796.

The principal countries of origin were: United Kingdom, 52·1 per cent.; British possessions, 23·5 per cent. (total British Empire, 75·6 per cent.); Persia, 5·4 per cent.; United States of America, 6·6 per cent.; Italy, 1·9 per cent.; Belgo-Luxemburg, 2·4 per cent.; other foreign countries, 8·1 per cent. (total foreign countries, 24·4 per cent.).

The principal domestic exports of Kenya and Uganda during 1948 were: coffee, £5,265,409; sugar, £776,672; tea, £871,792; cigarettes, £842,771; tin ore (Uganda), £103,231; cotton, raw, £7,554,362; sisal, fibre and tow, £2,456,934; hides and skins, £1,451,328; wattle bark and extract, £501,080; ivory (elephant), £63,878; pyrethrum, £188,622; wool, £91,714; gold bullion, £241,150; sodium carbonate, £957,578.

The chief countries of destination were: United Kingdom, 30 per cent.; British possessions, 49 per cent. (total British Empire, 79 per cent.); United States of America, 5 per cent.; other foreign countries, 16 per cent. (total foreign countries, 21 per cent.).

Full particulars are available in the Annual Trade Report of Kenya and Uganda.

GOVERNORS

1909 Colonel Sir E. P. Girouard, K.C.M.G., D.S.O., R.E.
1912 Sir H. C. Belfield, K.C.M.G.
1919 Major-General Sir E. Northey, K.C.M.G., C.B.
1922 Sir R. T. Coryndon, K.C.M.G.
1925 Lt.-Col. Sir E. W. M. Grigg, K.C.M.G., K.C.V.O., D.S.O., M.C.
1931 Brig.-Gen. Sir Joseph A. Byrne, G.C.M.G., K.B.E., C.B.
1937 Air Chief Marshal Sir Robert Brooke-Popham, G.C.V.O., K.C.B., C.M.G., D.S.O.
1940 Sir Henry Moore, K.C.M.G.
1944 Sir Philip Euen Mitchell, G.C.M.G., M.C.

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL

The Governor.
The Chief Secretary and Member for Development and Reconstruction.
The Attorney-General and Member for Law and Order.
The Financial Secretary and Member for Finance.
The Chief Native Commissioner and Member for African Affairs.
Member for Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Natural Resources.
Member for Education, Health and Local Government.
The Deputy Chief Secretary and Member for Labour.

A. Hope-Jones (Member for Commerce and Industry).
Major A. G. Keyser, D.S.O.
S. V. Cooke.
Bishop L. J. Beecher.
A. B. Patel.

LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL

President
His Excellency the Governor.

Vice-President and Speaker
W. K. Horne.

Ex-officio Members

Chief Secretary and Member for Development.
Attorney General and Member for Law and Order.
Financial Secretary and Member for Finance.
Chief Native Commissioner and Member for African Affairs.
Member for Agriculture and Natural Resources.
Deputy Chief Secretary and Member for Labour.
Member for Education, Health and Local Government.

Nominated Official Members

A. Hope-Jones (Member for Commerce and Industry).
R. Patrick, E.D. (Director of Education).
P. E. H. Pike, (Ag. Solicitor-General).
E. M. Hyde-Clarke, M.B.E. (Labour Commissioner).
S. Gillett (Director of Agriculture).
Sir Godfrey Rhodes, C.B., C.B.E., D.S.O. (Special Commissioner for Public Works).
Dr. T. F. Anderson (Director of Medical Services).
D. O'Hagan (Ag. Administrative Secretary).
Sir Charles Mortimer, C.B.E.

European Elected Members
M. Blundell (Rift Valley).
S. V. Cooke (Coast).
D. Q. Erskine (Nairobi South).
S. G. Ghersie, O.B.E. (Nairobi North).
W. B. Havelock (Kiambu).
J. G. H. Hopkins, O.B.E. (Aberdare).
Major A. G. Keyser, D.S.O. (Trans Nzoia).
L. R. Macdonochie-Welwood (Uasin Gishu).
Lady Shaw (Ukamba).
T. R. L. Preston (Nyanza).
C. G. Usher (Mombasa).

Indian Elected Members
C. B. Madan (Central Area).
I. E. Nathoo (Central Area).
A. Pritam (Western Area).
A. B. Patel, C.M.G. (Eastern Area).
Dr. M. A. Rana, M.B.E. (Eastern Area).

Arab Elected Member
Shariff Mohamed Abdulla Shatry.

Nominated Unofficial Members
African Interests—J. J. K. Arap Chemallan; J. Jeremiah; E. W. Mathu; B. A. Ohanga.
Arab Interests—Sheikh Said Seif bin Salim.

FOREIGN CONSULAR OFFICERS

Belgium—Mr. Willy Stevens (Consul General, Nairobi).
China—The care of Chinese affairs is temporarily under the jurisdiction of Mr. Shih Chao-Ying (Consul General at Johannesburg).
Czechoslovakia—The Consular District of Mr. Karel Vanek (Consul General of Czechoslovakia in London), includes all Colonies, Protectorates and Mandated Territories.
Denmark—P. E. Andersen (Royal Danish Consul, P.O. Kijabe); Mr. Ole Beyer (Vice-Consul, Box 412, Nairobi); Major W. Read, M.C., is in charge of Danish Consular Affairs in Mombasa (clo Dalgety and Co.).
France—Mons. Amedee Beaulieux (Consul Nairobi); Mr. Yves Boy (Vice-Consul, Nairobi); Mons. Roux (Vice-Council); Mons. Paul Benazeth (Consular Agent, Mombasa).
Finland—Finnish Political Representative, London.
Greece—N. Georgiadas (Hon. Greek Consul for Uganda and Kenya, residing Kampala, Uganda); Mr. Joseph Trivor Simpson (Vice-Consul).
India—Apa B. Pant, Commissioner for the Government of India in British East Africa (Nairobi).
Italy—Signor Ignazio Sanfelice di Monteforte (Italian Consul, Hove Court Hotel, Nairobi).
Netherlands—Mr. J. M. Donker (Consul General, Nairobi); W. J. Zwart (Consul, Mombasa).
Norway—Mr. Wm. Reginald Hessett Austin (Royal Norwegian Consul, Mombasa) (Box 86).
Poland—Mons. Albert Morski, Polish Consul-General in London, with jurisdiction including British Colonial Territories with the exception of Cyprus and Palestine.
Portugal—Senhor Jose Leopoldo Lopes de Neiva (Consul at Nairobi); Senhor Roque Felix Dias (Vice-Consul, Mombasa).

Sweden—Baron U. C. U. S. Akerheilm (Hon. Swedish Consul, Nairobi); S. Stenkvist (Hon. Vice-Consul).
Switzerland—H. Tanner (Consul, Tanga) (Box 102); W. Diener (Chancellor, Tanga); Ernest Belart (Vice-Consul, Nairobi) (Court Chambers).
Turkey—Mr. Halil Ali Ramazanoglu (Consul General of Turkey at London, with jurisdiction including British Colonies with the exception of Cyprus).
United States of America—Mr. Edward M. Groth (Consul-General, Nairobi); Robert Wilson Stookey, R. N. Schneider (Vice-Consuls, Nairobi); Mr. D. B. Hinton, Mr. F. E. Myers (Vice-Consuls, Mombasa).
Union of South Africa—Col. R. Campbell-Ross, D.S.O., O.B.E. (Commissioner) (P.O. Box 624, Nairobi).

SHORT SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY

Travels, Researches and Missionary Labours during an Eighteen Years' Residence in Eastern Africa, by J. Lewis Krapf. Trübner, 1860.
Through Masai Land (being the narrative of the Royal Geographical Society's expedition to Mount Kenya and Lake Victoria, Nyanza, 1883–1884), by Joseph Thomson. Sampson Low, 1885.
The Rise of our East African Empire, by Captain F. D. (later Lord) Lugard. Blackwood, 1893. 2 vols.
British East Africa, or Ihea : Work of the Imperial British East Africa Company, by P. L. McDermott. Chapman and Hall, 1893, 6s.
Discovery of Lakes Rudolf and Stefanie, by L. von Hohnel. Longmans, Green, 1894.
The East African Protectorate, by Sir Charles Eliot. Arnold, 1905, 15s.
The Nandi : Their Language and Folk-lore, by A. C. Hollis. Clarendon Press (Frowde), 1909, 16s.
Ethnology of the Akamba and other East African Tribes, by C. W. Hobley. C.U.P., 1909, 7s. 6d.
The Masai : Their Language and Folk-lore, by A. C. Hollis. O.U.P., 1911.
The Suk : Their Language and Folklore, by Mervyn Beech. Oxford Clarendon Press, 1911.
The Rift Valleys and Geology of East Africa, by J. W. Gregory. Seeley Service, 1921, 32s.
Bantu Beliefs and Magic, by C. W. Hobley. H. F. and G. Witherby, 1922; new edition, revised and enlarged, 1938.
East Africa, A New Dominion, by A. Church. H. F. and G. Witherby, 1927.
Kenya Mountain, by E. A. T. Dutton. Jonathan Cape, 1929.
Kenya : from Chartered Company to Crown Colony, by C. W. Hobley. Witherby, 1929, 16s.
The East African Problem, by J. H. Driberg. Williams & Norgate, 1930, 2s. 6d.
Early Days in East Africa, by Sir Frederick Jackson. Arnold, 1930, 21s.
The Akikuyu : Their Customs, Traditions and Folk-lore, by C. Cagnolo. Nyeri, Mission Printing School, 1933.
Out of Africa, by K. Blixen. Putnam, 1937, reprinted 1946, 12s. 6d.
Kenya Chronicles, by Lord Cranworth. Macmillan, 1939, 16s.
Race and Politics in Kenya, by E. Huxley and M. Perham. Faber & Faber, 1944, 12s. 6d.

The Social Institutions of the Kipsigis, by J. G. Peristiany. Routledge, 1939, 18s.

Settlers in Kenya, by Elspeth Huxley. Longmans, 1948.

The Story of the Uganda Agreement, by J. V. Wild. The Eagle Press (East African Literature Bureau), Nairobi, 1950. 3s.

Early Travellers in East Africa Series, by various authors. Nelson, for the East African Literature Bureau.

Kapf, by C. G. Richards. September, 1950.

CIVIL ESTABLISHMENT

GOVERNOR AND PERSONAL STAFF

Governor and Commander-in-Chief—Sir Philip Euen Mitchell, G.C.M.G., M.C. £5,000 and duty allowance, £3,500.

Private Secretary—Wing Cdr. J. R. Irving Bell. £775.

Aide-de-Camp—F/Lt. D. L. Hughes. £600.

ADMINISTRATION

Secretariat

Chief Secretary and Member for Development—J. D. Rankine, C.M.G. £2,600.

Financial Secretary and Member for Finance—V. G. Matthews, O.B.E. £2,150.

Chief Native Commissioner and Member for African Affairs—E. R. St. A. Davies, M.B.E. £2,150.

Deputy Chief Secretary and Member for Labour—C. H. Thornley. £2,150.

Member for Commerce and Industry—A. Hope-Jones. £2,150.

Director of Establishments—C. H. Hartwell. £1,850.

Secretary to the Treasury—F. C. Newton. £1,850.

Administrative Secretary—C. M. Deverell, O.B.E. £1,775.

Assistant Chief Secretary—L. A. Weaving. £1,435.

Secretary for Commerce and Industry—H. L. Adams. £1,435.

Assistant Financial Secretaries—W. Padley, O.B.E., K. W. S. Mackenzie. £1,435.

Native Courts Officer—D. O’Hagan. £1,435.

Chief Establishment Officer—R. C. M. Wood. £1,335.

Establishment Officers—I. P. de Nobriga; J. B. Gould; A. L. B. Perkins.

Assistant Secretaries—Major E. W. M. Magor, M.B.E.; G. J. W. Pedraza, M.C.; R. S. Winser; M. N. Evans; V. A. Maddison; Hon. H. A. C. Howard; C. L. Todd; J. H. Butter; A. G. Dalgleish; G. M. Hector; A. W. Horner; J. H. Martin; O. Stancarrow; C. E. D. Stiebel. £970–1,320.

Assistant Secretary (Female)—Miss M. M. Balch, M.B.E. £776–1,056.

Clerk to Legislative Council—T. V. N. Fortescue. £970–1,320.

Provincial Administration

Provincial Commissioners—K. L. Hunter, O.B.E.; D. L. Morgan, M.B.E.; A. C. M. Mullins; R. G. Turnbull; E. H. Windley. £1,775.

Senior District Commissioners—Colonel E. L. B. Anderson, C.B.E., D.S.O. (seconded to African Settlement and Land Utilization Board). £1,535.

Deputy Provincial Commissioner—P. F. Foster. £1,435.

Officer-in-Charge, Masai—E. A. Sweatman. £1,435.

District Officers—C. A. Cornell; P. J. de Bromhead; R. D. F. Ryland; R. J. C. Howes, M.B.E. (seconded as Secretary for Health and Local Government); L. E. Whitehouse; W. H. Hale (seconded to Game Department); C. F. Atkins; J. W. Cusack (seconded as Secretary for Law and Order); J. H. Lewis; P. S. Osborne; N. F. Kennaway; C. H. Williams; C. M. Johnston; M. E. W. North; E. J. A. Leslie (seconded as Ag. Registrar of Co-operative Societies); R. O. Hennings (seconded as Asst. Secretary to the Member for Agriculture) R. A. Wilkinson; J. B. Sinclair-Lockhart; K. M. Cowley (seconded to Secretariat); J. K. R. Thorp; J. A. H. Wolff; R. E. Wainwright; F. W. Goodbody; D. W. Hall (seconded as Personal Assistant to the Chief Native Commissioner); T. G. Askwith (seconded to Social Welfare Department); W. F. P. Kelly; G. C. M. Dowson (seconded to Office of Member for Agriculture); A. C. C. Swann; F. D. Homan; J. D. Stringer; J. B. Carson; H. J. Simpson; P. W. Low; G. A. Skipper; M. N. Evans (seconded to Secretariat); J. W. Howard; F. A. Lloyd; A. M. Wilkie (seconded to Secretariat); P. G. Tait; D. C. Kennedy; M. M. Smith; D. G. Christie-Miller; P. H. Brown; C. Campbell; W. N. B. Loudon; J. Pinney; T. A. Watts; R. A. M. Birkett; R. S. Winser (seconded to Secretariat); T. J. F. Gavaghan; F. P. B. Derrick (seconded to Aden); A. F. Holford Walker; A. C. Loggin; A. D. Shireff; R. H. Symes-Thompson; J. A. Gardner; T. M. Loudon (seconded to Member for Agriculture and Natural Resources); P. M. Gordon; The Hon. H. A. C. Howard (seconded to Secretariat); G. M. Hector (seconded to Secretariat); P. D. McEntee; L. F. G. Pritchard; J. H. Candler; G. J. Ellerton; R. G. Brayne-Nicholls; N. G. Hardy; A. D. Galton Fenzi; P. E. Walters; R. C. Mills; D. J. Penwill; O. E. B. Hughes; A. C. Small; P. Crichton; V. A. Maddison (seconded to Secretariat); P. M. Hughes, M.B.E.; T. Neil; F. R. Wilson; A. B. Simpson; E. W. M. Magor (seconded to Secretariat); P. D. Abrams; W. F. Pollock-Morris; P. J. Browning; D. L. V. Hodge; G. N. Hampson; C. J. Denton; K. B. Keith; L. D. A. Baron; E. C. Eggin; H. C. F. Wilks; P. J. H. Barker; J. F. D. Buttery; J. A. Cumber; J. J. de G. Delmegé; C. P. Chenevix-Trench (seconded to C.O.); J. M. Normand; J. M. B. Butler; A. F. Sagar; G. N. Bebb; O. S. Knowles; P. H. Jones; F. A. Peet; W. B. G. Raynor; M. G. Power; G. J. W. Pedraza, M.C. (seconded to Secretariat); J. R. Nimmo, M.C.; T. L. Edgar; A. E. Errington; P. Heal; R. J. S. Hickson-Mahony; G. H. Hilton-Brown; R. A. Hosking; C. M. Johnson-Hill; J. S. S. Rowlands; G. S. Snell; G. W. Smith-Osbourne; A. L. Keen; H. de W. Waller; J. M. St. McGregor; R. A. C. Hacking; M. Armor; C. H. Cresswell; T. C. Wilkinson; K. P. Shaw; E. D. Fox. £550–1,320.

ACCOUNTANT GENERAL

Accountant General—Vacant. £1,650.

Assistant Accountant General—R. W. Smith. £1,335.

Senior Accountants—D. Cuthbert; H. C. O’Brien. £550–1,230.
Accountants—H. C. Barnwell; H. P. Cinnamond, M.C.; J. A. R. Edwards; G. B. Harvey; G. L. Krauss; R. Miller; B. A. Pickering; H. G. Watkins. £550–1,230.

African Information Services
Manager—G. S. Hutchinson. £1,335.
Assistant Manager—J. H. Reiss. £900.
Press Liaison Officer—H. C. E. Downes. £1,000.

Agriculture
Director of Agriculture—S. Gillett. £1,850.
Deputy Director—R. E. T. Hobbs. £1,535.
Assistant Director (Field)—R. J. M. Swynnerton, O.B.E., M.C. £1,385.
Assistant Director (Research)—C. C. Webster. £1,385.
Provincial Agricultural Officers—J. E. P. Booth; J. T. Moon. £585–1,320.
Senior Agricultural Officers—E. W. Gaddum; F. B. Wilson, M.B.E. £585–1,320.
Senior Pasture Research Officer—D. C. Edwards. £585–1,320.
Agricultural Officers—I. H. Brown; G. S. Cowley, D.F.C.; G. Gamble; T. H. Jackson; P. A. Jones; A. F. Nichols; F. H. Ormerod; A. E. Pound; G. B. Ratrall; A. Storrar; R. O. Williams; E. C. M. Green; E. S. Porter; G. R. Henderson; T. B. Spence; H. T. Lloyd; R. J. Spooner; L. T. Collings Wells; J. T. T. Schouten; J. Duncan; L. R. N. Strange. £585–1,320.
Principal, Egerton School of Agriculture—G. H. Chaundy. £585–1,320.
Lecturer—S. H. Phoenix. £585–1,320.
Senior Entomologist—R. H. Le Pelley. £585–1,320.
Entomologist—J. F. Graham. £585–1,320.
Senior Plant Pathologist—R. M. Natrass. £585–1,320.
Plant Pathologist—R. W. Rayner. £585–1,320.
Senior Soil Chemist—G. H. G. Jones. £585–1,320.
Soil Chemist—E. Bellis. £585–1,320.
Agricultural Chemist—H. C. Pereira. £585–1,320.
Senior Plant Breeder—H. C. Thorpe. £585–1,320.
Plant Breeder—A. Bolton. £585–1,320.
Senior Entomologist (Coffee)—A. R. Melville. £585–1,320.
Entomologist—D. J. McCrea.
Senior Soil Conservation Engineer—R. O. Barnes. £655–1,320.
Soil Conservation Engineer—E. G. Pike. £655–1,320.

Office of the Member for Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Natural Resources
Member for Agriculture—Major F. W. Cavendish-Bentinck, C.M.G., M.C. £2,150.
Secretary for Agriculture—J. H. Ingham, M.B.E. £1,435.
Assistant Secretary for Agriculture—R. O. Hennings. £970–1,320.

African Settlement
Commissioner for African Land Utilisation and Settlement—E. L. B. Anderson, C.B.E., D.S.O. £1,200.

Audit
Director of Audit—J. R. Cusack. £1,800.
Deputy Director of Audit—Rodway. £1,435.
Principal Auditors—D. W. Lattimer; H. D. D. Wilkinson. £1,335.
Senior Auditors—W. E. Evans; N. S. Carey-Jones; G. C. Cowan; K. A. W. Johnson. £1,095–1,230.
Auditors and Assistant Auditors—R. I. Guthrie; K. R. Cook, M.B.E.; W. A. Marshall; P. K. Bond; J. Wood; L. A. W. Heenan; H. V. Barnard; J. D. Young; C. D. Westobey; A. N. Monckton; S. W. Holloway; P. R. F. Legh; A. E. Rolland. £550–1,050.

Central Commodity Distribution Board
Chairman—W. N. Dolton. £1,320 (£200 personal allowance).

Customs
(See under East Africa High Commission.)

Development and Reconstruction Authority (Headquarters)
Chairman—J. D. Rankine, C.M.G. £2,600.
Secretary—J. L. H. Webster. £1,435.
Town Planning Adviser—H. T. Dyer. £1,100

Education Administration
Director of Education—R. Patrick, E.D. £1,850.
Deputy Director of Education—W. J. D. Wadley. £1,535.
Chief Inspector of Schools—B. A. Astley. £1,385.
Assistant Director of Education—Miss M. Janisch. £1,108. N. B. Larby. £1,385.
Superintendent of Technical Education—J. M. Messenger. £1,385.
Senior Education Officers—B. T. Lindahl; V. A. Ottaway; H. W. Stokes; A. S. Walford; W. W. Lewis-Jones; J. Gillett. £1,185–1,320.
Senior Agricultural Education Officer—Vacant. £1,185–1,320.
Agricultural Education Officers—P. O. Bryant; M. D. Graham. £550–1,140.
Education Officers (Male)—A. F. Bull; J. B. Miller, G.C.; A. V. Hatfield; I. C. H. Freeman; A. Bromley; E. S. Cooper. £550–1,140.
Education Officers (Female)—Miss B. Dodds; Miss D. Kirk. £496–912.
Administrative Secretary—Mrs. K. M. B. Risborough. £496–912.

European Education
Headmaster, Prince of Wales School—P. Fletcher. £1,335.
Headmaster, Duke of York School—R. H. James. £1,185–1,320.
Vice-Principal, Prince of Wales School—J. R. Forrest. £1,005–1,230.
Principals, European Primary Boarding Schools—H. Gledhill; J. Woods; R. Hunter. £1,005–1,230.
Head of Arts Side, Prince of Wales School—R. H. Barton. £1,005–1,230.
Head of Science Side, Prince of Wales School—J. H. Stewart. £1,005–1,230.
Education Officers (Male)—H. P. Lamont; H. E. Watson; E. G. A. Atkinson; F. C. Harris; E. J. Clarke; R. L. M. Sim; N. R. M. Chadwick; E. M. Cobb; F. Goldsmith; C. M. Taylor; A. K. Fyfe; W. Read-Salmon; F. F. Gilboy; W. J. H. Livesedge; I. J. McCulloch; G. C. Knight; A. H. David; E. J. Boase; O. T. Davies; C. Hurst; D. S. Gammie; R. W. Walmsley; H. R. Hesketh; S. P. T. Houldsworth; T. L. Evans; K. J. Higson; D. W. Minette; C. R. Burton; E. R. Bindloss; P. G. Nel; J. A. Seldon; R. Short; H. Taberner; B. R. Norman. £550–1,140.
Principal, Kenya High School for Girls—Miss J. M. A. Stott. £1,068.
Vice-Principal, Kenya High School for Girls—Miss L. M. Eden. £876–984.
Head of Arts Side, Kenya High School for Girls—Miss A. W. Ingram. £876–984.
Head of Science Side, Kenya High School for Girls—Vacant. £876–984.

Education Officers (Female)—Miss E. M. Yonge; Miss L. M. Hastings; Miss E. A. Ford; Miss H. J. Richardson; Miss M. E. Biddle; Miss M. A. Taylor; Miss M. P. Anderson; Miss C. A. Nicolle; Miss J. Harnett; Miss R. Harnett; Miss V. B. M. Raw; Miss M. M. G. Thompson; Miss D. M. Watkins; Miss E. A. Blundell; Miss D. Gunn; Miss O. D. Muir; Miss L. M. Wigram; Miss E. M. Williams; Miss S. L. Price; Miss B. J. Wills; Miss J. M. Venn; Miss G. M. Naldrett. £496–912.

Indian Education

Principal, Indian Male Training Centre—E. I. Gledhill. £1,185–1,320.
Education Officer (Male)—E. K. Light; D. N. Nuttall; J. C. Clement; J. C. Loadman. £550–1,140.
Principal, Training College for Indian Women—Miss N. M. H. Stapley. £948–1,056.
Principals (Female), Government Indian Girls’ Schools—Miss E. M. Paine; Mrs. R. C. Lincoln. £948–1,056.
Education Officer (Female)—Miss M. E. Churchill; Miss M. Maclean. £496–912.

Arab Education

Principal Arab Secondary School—C. C. Ricketts. £550–1,140.
Education Officers (Male)—A. J. Raymer; T. W. Sharrad. £550–1,140.
Headmistress, Arab Girls’ School—Vacant. £696–744.
Sir Ali Bin Salim School—Education Officer—D. McCallum. £550–1,140.

African Education

Principals, Teacher Training Centres—Rev. R. A. Lockhart; F. W. Johnson. £1,185–1,320.
Principal, Government Secondary School—H. Chapman. £1,185–1,320.
Principals, T.3 Training Centres—Two vacancies. £1,005–1,230.
Principal, Kabete Technical and Trade School—A. E. Talbot, M.B.E. £970–1,320.
Education Officers (Male)—C. W. Jackman; J. L. Porter; C. S. Thompson; A. M. Wallace; R. H. G. Travers; N. G. P. de Lany; J. L. Crawford; D. R. Day; A. M. M. Greig; R. A. Lake; G. E. Perren; J. H. Bateman; J. M. Popkin; T. R. Young; H. T. Woodhouse; W. J. Hacker; G. E. Ayton; F. K. Goundy; M. C. Grounds; J. G. Mackay; W. N. Cheadle; E. O’Connor; A. G. H. House; P. Sanderson. £550–1,140.
Principals, Training Centres for African Women—Miss N. P. Hockley; Miss A. K. Harding. £876–984.
Education Officer (Female)—Miss J. MacKillop. £496–984.

European Settlement

Commissioner for European Settlement—S. Gillett.

Forestry

Conservator of Forests—Vacant. £1,635.
Senior Assistant Conservator of Forests—R. M. Graham. £550–1,320.
Assistant Conservators of Forests—E. J. Honore; D. G. B. Leakey; R. V. H. Porter; J. T. Templer; W. E. M. Logan; J. R. B. Angus; J. P. W. Logil; K. Sargent; J. B. Smart; J. E. B. Cobby. £530–1,320.

Game

Game Warden—W. H. Hale (acting). £1,385.
Senior Assistant Game Warden—Sir J. A. Kirkpatrick, Bt. (acting). £945–1,085.
Fish Warden—H. Copley. £945–1,085.

Health and Local Government

Member for Education, Health and Local Government—E. A. Vasey, C.M.G. £2,150.
Secretary, Health and Local Government—R. J. C. Howes, M.B.E. (seconded from Administration). £1,435.
Executive Officer, European Hospital Authority—H. L. Steel. £1,140.
Local Government Inspector—A. Altorfer. £1,230.

Immigration

Principal Immigration Officer—J. A. Palfreman. £1,435.
Deputy Principal Immigration Officer—J. G. Carter. £1,185 × 45–1,320.

Income Tax Department

Inland Revenue Department

(See under East Africa High Commission)

Judicial

Chief Justice—Sir Barclay Nihil, Kt.B., K.C., M.C. £2,700.
Puisne Judges—R. S. Thacker, K.C.; T. D. M. Bartley; P. J. Bourke; M. C. N. de Lestang; F. S. Modera. £1,850.
Resident Magistrates—C. P. Connel; R. H. Keatinge; R. A. Campbell; H. G. Sherrin; E. R. Harley; Miss G. J. Rugg Gunn; A. A. L. Cram, M.C.; W. H. Goudie; J. R. McCready; R. L. Le Gallais; A. C. Harrison; F. H. Miller; R. J. Quin. £865–1,320.
Registrar of Supreme Court and Court of Appeal for Eastern Africa—D. F. Shaylor. £1,185–1,320.

Labour

Labour Commissioner—Vacant. £1,775.
Deputy Labour Commissioner—F. W. Carpenter. £1,435.
Principal Labour Officer—A. H. Kneller. £690–1,320.
Medical Specialist—G. Dru Drury. £1,335–1,435.
Factory Inspector—W. R. C. Keeler. £900–1,080.
Trade Union and Labour Officer—J. Patrick. £900–1,080.
Senior Labour Officers—C. W. Howard; W. O. Townsend; P. E. D. Wilson. £690–1,320.
Principal Registrar—A. T. Wise. £970–1,230.

Lands

Special Commissioner and Acting Commissioner of Lands—E. R. J. R. Cousins, C.S.I., C.I.E., I.C.S. £1,800.
Assistant Commissioner (Administration)—J. A. Rice. £1,485.
Assistant Commissioner (Lands)—G. H. W. Annells. £1,485.
Land Officer—J. A. O’Loughlin. £970–1,140.
Principal Registrar of Titles—R. H. Mills Owen. £1,185–1,320.
Registrars of Titles—J. E. Jardin; A. Wynn Jones. £830–1,050.
LEGAL

Attorney-General and Member for Law and Order—K. O'Connor, M.C. £2,150.
Solicitor-General—J. B. Hobson. £1,635.
Legal Draughtsman—P. E. H. Pike. £1,435.
Deputy Public Prosecutor—Vacant. £1,435.
Crown Counsel—J. H. S. Todd; A. F. Holland; A. G. Somerhough; J. S. Templeton; K. S. Yew. £865–1,320.

MEDICAL

Director of Medical Services—T. F. Anderson, O.B.E. £2,050.
Deputy Director of Medical Services—E. A. Trim. £1,800.
Assistant Director of Medical Services—R. S. McElroy; A. J. Walker. £1,700.
Senior Medical Officers—W. H. Smith; R. McFiggans; A. McK. Fleming; G. Dru Drury (seconded to Labour Department); E. M. Clark; E. H. Murcott; H. G. H. Waters. £1,650.
Administrative Secretary—A. W. Purvis. £1,050–1,320.
Senior Specialist (Surgical)—C. V. Braimbridge, C.B.E., M.V.O.
Specialist (Surgical)—J. F. Jarvis.
Specialist (Ophthalmic)—A. R. McKelvie.
Specialist (Anaesthetist)—Vacant.
Specialist (Medical)—F. J. Wright.
Specialist (Psychiatrist)—E. J. Foley.

Medical Officers

Note.—† £865–1,590.
†J. H. Bartlett.
†W. L. Barton.
A. H. Barwell.
F. Bell.
†G. G. Bisley.
†D. M. Blomfield.
†P. L. Candler.
†C. Cachia.
†D. W. F. Charlton.
†G. C. Cochrane.
†E. de M. Commell.
†J. K. Craig.
†C. W. Davies.
†N. R. E. Fendall.
†H. C. Foster.
†S. R. S. Godkin.
†G. M. Gorrie.
†E. O. C. Grattan.
A. Hargreaves.
†B. P. Harris.
†W. S. Haynes.
D. W. N. Hurley.
O. R. Keating.
†W. H. Kirkaldy-Willis.
†W. E. Lawes.
†J. Littlejohn.
†D. H. Mackay.
†T. C. H. Mathews.
†W. H. G. Patton.
†C. S. Pitt.
†E. P. Rigby.
†A. R. Sandford.
†A. C. B. Singleton.
†H. Stott.
J. H. Taylor.
A. R. Watson.
†R. H. Wiseman.
Matron-in-Chief—Miss B. M. Griffin. £850.
Matrons, Grade I—Miss I. M. Nicholson; Miss S. B. Rees. £780. Grade II—Miss A. M. L. Fussel; Miss D. M. Wolfe. £730.
Nursing Sisters (95)—£460–700.
Chief Health Inspector—J. S. Stirton. £840–1,000.
Assistant Director of Laboratory Services—G. L. Timms. £1,700.
Pathologists—E. R. N. Cooke; J. Lowry. £865–1,590.
Biochemist—D. Harvey. £865–1,320.
Entomologists—J. C. McMahon. £585–1,320.
Parasitologist—R. B. Hirsch. £865–1,590.

MINES AND GEOLOGICAL

Commissioner (Mines and Geology)—W. D. Harverson. £1,635.
Chief Geologist—Dr. W. Pulfrey. £1,435.
Senior Geologist—Dr. B. N. Temperley. £690–1,320.
Geologists—F. W. Binge; A. Huddleston; D. L. Searle; E. P. Saggerson; P. V. Caswell; B. H. Baker; R. G. Dodson; A. P. Thompson; J. M. Miller. £690–1,320.
Inspector of Mines—B. W. Harding. £655–1,320.
Chemist and Assayer—W. P. Horne. £690–1,320.
Metallurgist—A. L. Stewart. £690–1,320.

POLICE

Commissioner of Police—M. S. O'Rorke, O.B.E. £1,850.
Deputy Commissioner of Police—S. L. Vincent, K.P.M. £1,535.
Assistant Commissioners of Police—D. D. M. McGoun, K.P.M. £1,385.
Senior Superintendent (Finance)—Captain C. S. Littlefair, O.B.E. £1,185–1,320.
Senior Superintendents—A. W. Riggs, M.B.E.; E. K. Laws, K.P.M.; K. T. M. Holmes; W. M. G. Sandwith; J. A. Sweeney, K.P.M.; K. P. Hadingham, K.P.M.; Lt-Col. J. Cummins; A. Corry Thomas. £1,185–1,320.
Superintendents—C. Penfold; D. D. C. Swayne; C. H. Imray, K.P.M.; G. R. H. Gribble; P. C. Brookes, K.P.M.; H. N. Instone, K.P.M.; G. M. Smith. £1,020–1,140.

POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS

(See under East Africa High Commission)

PRINTING AND STATIONERY

Government Printer—T. L. Peet. £1,450.
Assistant Government Printer—Vacant. £970–1,140.

PRISONS

Commissioner of Prisons—G. H. Heaton, O.B.E. £1,535.
Assistant Commissioner of Prisons—B. B. Donald. £1,230.
Assistant Commissioner, Approved Schools—Vacant. £1,230.
Superintendents and Assistant Superintendents, Grade I—V. de V. Allen; J. H. Daly; E. B. Dove; Capt. J. H. Frank, M.C.; F. A. Martin, M.C.; Commdr. W. R. Fenton, R.N. (retd.); G. C. M. Phillips; G. H. C. Thacker; R. H. Timmis. £550–1,025.
Probation Officer—C. S. Owen. £550–1,025.

PUBLIC WORKS

Chief Engineer and Special Commissioner for Works—Sir Godfrey Rhodes, C.B., C.B.E., D.S.O. £3,250.
Deputy Director of Public Works—D. H. Lawson. £1,535.
Structural Engineer—W. D. Arnot. £1,435.
Engineers—H. H. Facey; W. J. Deal; T. V. Garland; E. P. Wilders; B. R. Montgomery; I. L. Roberts; W. G. N. Stirling; T. E. Bruce; G. R. T. Jackson; D. Anderson; J. MacFarlane; P. R. Morris; J. K. B. Willis. £655–1,320.

Administrative Assistant—G. S. Cullen. £1,140.

Engineers—I. H. Frost; J. D. Wilson; A. Bennetts; H. L. Molyneaux; E. H. Robins. £655–1,320.

Engineer (Structural)—W. H. Bartlett. £655–1,320.

Chief Accountant—L. P. John. £1,140–1,320.

Deputy Chief Accountant—C. P. O’Shea. £935–1,095.

Architect—L. Bintley. £1,385.

Assistant Architects—J. H. Baker; W. E. Alp. £655–1,320.

Chief Quantity Surveyor—A. E. Wevill. £1,185–1,320.

Assistant Quantity Surveyor—A. R. Norton. £655–1,140.

Road Engineer—G. B. Weale, O.B.E. £2,150.

Construction and Maintenance Engineer—E. R. Massey. £1,435–1,535.

Planning Engineer—R. L. Rolph. £1,385.

Location Engineer—P. B. E. Thompson. £1,185.

Inspecting Engineer—J. Fleming. £1,375.

Materials Engineer—F. S. Strongman. £1,320.

Assistant Materials Engineer—R. E. Tyson. £655–1,320.

Mechanical Engineer—J. I. Moore. £1,385.

Hydraulic Engineer—J. H. Squires. £1,353.

Deputy Hydraulic Engineer—B. R. C. Kock. £1,320.

Engineer Hydrologist—F. Grundy, M.C. £1,185–1,320.

Senior Engineer Geologist—W. H. Reeve. £1,320.

Engineer Geologist—A. O. Thompson. £690–1,320.

Engineers Hydrology—G. A. N. Starmans. £1,320. A. G. Ödell. £655–1,320. R. T. Arnold. £655–1,320.

Electrical Engineer—J. C. V. Buckhurst. £1,320.

Assistant Electrical Engineers—I. Procter. £1,320. W. Austin. £655–1,320.

Development and Reconstruction Staff

Superintending Engineer—D. B. Mills. £1,535.

Assistant Superintending Engineer—H. R. Thompson. £1,185–1,320.

Engineers—D. D. Grieve. £655–1,320. W. L. Connell. £1,320.

Assistant Architects—J. H. Beers; K. S. King; N. S. Bean. £655–1,320.

Assistant Road Engineer—C. F. Armstrong. £1,320.

Engineers—M. C. Rhodes; F. L. D. Wooltorton; P. St. C. Ballenden; D. A. G. Allan; D. G. M. Gardner; H. G. Follenfiant; W. T. Oliver; B. Anderson; G. T. Morris; D. L. Solomon. £655–1,320.

Deputy Mechanical Engineer—P. Jansz. £1,320.

Engineers—J. Chapman; F. Griffiths. £655–1,320.

Hydraulic Branch

Engineers—Neil Whiston; H. P. Michael; M. Sauve. £655–1,320.

Senior Engineer Geologist—S. Stock. £1,320.

Engineer Geologists—G. Wilson; M. W. Jowett. £690–1,320.

Engineers (Hydraulic)—H. H. Aldwinckle. £1,140. S. J. R. Finch; C. J. Lang; R. B. Pickett. £655–1,320.

Assistant Electrical Engineer—A. Bateson. £655–1,320.

RAILWAYS AND HARBOURS

(See under East Africa High Commission.)

REGISTRAR-GENERAL

Registrar-General, Public Trustee and Official Receiver—J. F. Spry. £1,450.

Assistant Registrar-General, and Deputy to Public Trustee and Official Receiver—D. J. Coward. £760–1,140.

SURVEY OF KENYA

Director—H. A. Stamers-Smith. £1,485.

Assistant Directors—R. J. Butler; J. W. Loxton. £1,335.

Staff Surveyors—G. V. Ashton; R. Congreve; B. B. Whittaker; C. G. Fannin; F. H. Ratzeburg; P. B. Finn; B. S. Landreth; S. J. Bromley; D. W. Carbury; K. H. Burr; A. G. Dalgleish; S. T. Moon. £530–1,320.

Technical Officer—Miss E. M. Usher. £496–912.

Chief Draughtsman—H. Ramsbottom. £715–840.

Draughtsmen—P. E. Rendle; R. Collins; T. S. Whittaker; E. Boddington. £550–715.

VETERINARY

Director of Veterinary Services—E. Beaumont. £1,850.

Deputy Director of Veterinary Services (Field Services)—R. A. Hammond. £1,335.

Deputy Director of Veterinary Services (Native Field Services)—D. E. Faulkner. £1,535.

Chief Veterinary Research Officer—H. S. Purchase.

Senior Veterinary Officers—K. D. S. MacOwan; E. P. Rice. £865–1,320.

Veterinary Officers—B. Bagenal; T. G. Chamberlain; A. E. Dorman; M. P. Ford; C. R. Holmes; R. W. E. Lewis; W. S. Luke; R. M. S. Neave; P. T. Preston; D. C. Hague; R. Wooldridge; A. Gimsberg; D. A. Walker; J. A. Marquard Anderson; H. P. Vinkel Jensen; J. F. Hart. £865–1,320.

Veterinary Research Officers—J. Anderson, £600–720–840—5 years to 920; M. J. Fitzpatrick; S. E. Piercy; W. Plowright; J. F. Shirlaw; G. R. Scott; P. W. Thorold; M. C. Burdin; D. Sheriff; Mrs. R. Simpson. £865–1,320.

Biochemist—D. P. Braithwaite. £855–1,320.

Chief Field Zoologist—S. G. Wilson. £1,385.

Zoologist—Miss B. L. Duthy. £468–1,056.

