NIGERIA

SITUATION AND AREA
The British Colony and Protectorate of Nigeria is situated on the north-eastern shore of that deep indentation in the western coast of the African continent known as the Gulf of Guinea, and is enclosed roughly by parallels of latitude 4° and 14° N. and by meridians of longitude 3° and 14° E.
It is bounded on the north and north-west by the military territories of the French Sudan, on the east and south-east by the Cameroons, on the south and south-west by the waters of the Gulf of Guinea, and on the west by the French colony of Dahomey. Its greatest length from east to west is 700 miles and greatest breadth from north to south 650 miles.

Great Britain has received a Trusteeship over a small portion (amounting to 34,081 square miles) of the former German territory of the Cameroons, which portion has been placed, for purposes of administration, under the Nigerian Government.

The area of Nigeria, including the area of Cameroons under British mandate, is approximately 372,674 square miles (eastern and western provinces and colony 90,896 square miles, northern provinces 281,778 square miles). The country is therefore a little less in area than Norway and Sweden together.

**CLIMATE**

The climate is influenced to a large extent by the interaction of two great wind currents, viz., the dry dust-laden Harmattan, which is a north-easterly wind off the Sahara, and the south-westerly monsoon. The seasons are as a rule well defined—the "dry season" characterised by the dry north-easterly Harmattan, and the "rainy season." The former begins in the north in October, extending its influence gradually southward until it is perceptible at Lagos early in November. There it appears intermittently up to the beginning of March, but in the north the dust and haze are more continuous and last until April. During this period the maximum diurnal variations of temperature occur. The wind blows generally from the north-east, and both diurnal variation and humidity vary with the severity of the Harmattan. Even in Lagos, where hourly observations are taken, during December and January the humidity has been known to fall to 28 per cent. This season is ushered in and out by short periods of tornadoes and, with a slight break in August in the southern provinces, the rainy season fills the remainder of the year. A prevailing southwest wind supplies on the coast a copious precipitation which decreases rapidly as it travels inland. At Bonny, on the coast, the rainfall recorded in 1923 was 150-99 inches, rain falling on 151 days; at Kaduna, in the middle of the country, 43-55 inches, rain falling on 112 days; while the lowest recorded was 25-05 inches at Sokoto, rain falling on 44 days.

**GENERAL DESCRIPTION**

Nigeria consists of the following four main zones or areas:

(1) An area of swamp and mangrove forest with almost impenetrable undergrowth, running parallel to the coast-line and varying in depth from 20 to 60 miles. This area, which includes the deltaic region of the River Niger, is covered by a network of creeks and traversed by numerous rivers, the most important of which are the Rivers Benin, Forcados (branch of the River Niger), Nun (branch of the River Niger), Sombreiro, Bonny, Imo, Kwa-Ibo and Cross.

(2) A belt of dense forest with thick undergrowth extending from the western to the eastern boundary and from 50 to 100 miles in width. The southern border of this area is some 20 miles from the coast-line in the west and thence follows the northern limit of the swamp and mangrove area. Its northern edge is difficult to determine exactly, as the belt gradually changes to patches of forest alternating with thick scrub and grass plains running approximately along a line drawn in a general east-south-easterly direction from about 7° 30' N. on the western border to 6° N. on the extreme east. The country is generally undulating with scattered hills, and an extensive view can seldom be obtained; there are, however, hills rising to over 3,000 feet, and the region becomes mountainous as the Cameroons frontier is approached. The zone is well watered by numerous rivers, which, with few exceptions, run from north to south, and contains extremely rich oil-palm areas. There are no open spaces, except around villages and clearings for farms.

(3) A zone of comparatively open country gradually developing into park-like land and thence into open expanses covered with high grass as the watershed of the River Benue and that of the Niger (above its confluence with the Benue) are neared. The zone is generally hilly and mountainous on the Cameroons frontier, where heights above 6,000 feet are to be found.

(4) A plateau occupying the greater portion of Nigeria north of the Rivers Niger and Benue. East of longitude 7° the southern limits of this plateau are determined by a zone of hills which succeeds the undulating grass country to the south. The features of the plateau are generally similar, and although many rivers take their rise in this tableland, it is broken to no great extent by their valleys, except in the cases of those of the Rivers Niger and Benue on the south and west. In elevation it does not exceed an altitude of much over 2,000 feet, except in the mountainous parts of Bauchi, where heights of 6,000 feet and more occur, and in the south-west of Yola, which is occupied by a part of the Cameroons mountain system. The surface is generally undulating, marked here and there by hills of granite and sandstone, which rise abruptly from the surrounding land. The country is clothed to a large extent with thin forests which become more and more scanty as the Western Sudan is entered and the arid "steppes" of the Sahara Desert are approached.

**POPULATION**

Nigeria is divided among a great number of tribes. The origin and ethnological classification are obscure, but they may be divided into two main groups; the people of the north, who are organised in a number of Moslem states, and some Moslem nomads and a number of smaller unassimilated tribes; and the less highly organised tribes of the coast and forest regions.

The total population of Nigeria at the time of the last census in 1931 was estimated at 19,928,171 including 778,352 in the Cameroons under U.K. Trusteeship. This population was distributed as follows:

|                | Non-Africans | Africans | Total   |
|----------------|--------------|----------|---------|
| Northern Provinces | 11,433,099   | 1,825    | 11,434,924 |
| Southern Provinces | 8,489,630    | 3,617    | 8,493,247 |
| Nigeria          | 19,922,729   | 5,442    | 19,928,171 |

Nearly 2,500 of the non-native male population were in Government service, leaving, after exclusion of 1,066 females, slightly less than 2,000 European and Syrian males, mostly engaged in commerce.
The division of the African population among the principal tribal groups is as follows:

| Tribe   | Per cent. | Tribe   | Per cent. |
|---------|-----------|---------|-----------|
| Fulani  | 10        | Kanuri  | 5         |
| Hausa   | 18        | Munshi  | 3         |
| Ibibio  | 4         | Yoruba  | 16        |
| Ibo     | 16        | Other   | 28        |

Hausas and Fulani together form 50 per cent. of the population of the Northern, and Ibos and Yorubas together 70 per cent. of the population of the Southern Provinces.

A census was taken in Lagos at the end of February, 1950.

The African population of the five largest towns is:

- Ibadan: 335,500
- Lagos: 230,000
- Kano: 102,000
- Iwo: 86,000
- Ogbomosho: 84,500

The total population of Nigeria and the Cameroons under United Kingdom Trusteeship in 1948 was estimated at 25,000,000 (Cameroons 1,027,000).

RELIGION

In the Northern Provinces the bulk of the population is Muhammadan and the remainder, consisting chiefly of those tribes that have resisted the onset of Muslim invaders are termed in contradistinction pagans. Their religion corresponds to that of most other African tribes in their natural state and consists of a belief in a Supreme Being combined with forms of animism and ancestor worship. With this goes a belief in witchcraft and magic which varies in intensity, the fear of witchcraft being much greater in some tribes than in others. In the Southern Provinces the bulk of the population can still be termed pagans though Christianity is widespread among the educated and semi-educated classes. There are also large numbers of Muhammadans in the Yoruba towns.

Missionaries have been at work (in the Southern Provinces and Colony at least) for a great number of years, and many of the ancient treaties contained clauses by which the chiefs were bound to encourage and protect the Christian missions. The chief denominations established in Nigeria are the Church of England (Church Missionary Society), Roman Catholic, Methodist, Presbyterian and Baptist. There is also a Native African Church, modelled on the Church of England, but allowing polygamy among its members. There is a Church of England Bishop of Lagos assisted by three Assistant Bishops, and a Diocese of the Niger with a Bishop and two Assistant Bishops. The Diocesan Synod of Western Equatorial Africa was incorporated within Nigeria by Ordinance No. 53 of 1917, but this ordinance was repealed by the Lagos Diocesan Synod Ordinance, 1923, which incorporated the Diocesan Synod of Lagos. There are five Roman Catholic vicariates with Bishops resident at Lagos, Asaba, Buea, Ondo and Onitsha respectively, also four Prefectures in charge of Prefects Apostolic resident at Kaduna, Jos, Calabar and Ogoja.

HISTORY

As far back as the 17th century British traders have had mercantile depôts on the mouths of the Niger and adjacent rivers and creeks, known as the oil rivers, and in those early times the trade was mainly confined to the traffic in slaves. At this epoch the French attempted a settlement at the mouth of the Niger, but were unsuccessful and during the 18th century British interests preponderated.

At the beginning of the 19th century the exploration of the upper river, which had hitherto been supposed to be identical with the Nile or Congo, began, and Mungo Park traced its course from Bamako to Bussa, where he lost his life in the rapids. Lander in 1830 demonstrated the identity of Mungo Park’s river at Bussa with the lower Niger, and followed its course to the sea.

In the next two decades, 1840–60, efforts were made, both by the British Government and private individuals, including French and German merchants, to develop the trade of the Niger, while our knowledge of the interior was greatly enlarged by the travels of Clapperton and Allen, both British, and of Barth and others, all at British instigation. A consulate was founded at Lokoja, and, at the cost of much money and many lives, some progress seemed to have been made, only to result in failure. The pioneer of these efforts was McGregor Laird, who in 1852 began to establish stations and to endeavour to secure the country for England, but the stations were destroyed by natives, or removed after Laird’s death in 1861. The good results of his work were not, however, entirely lost.

The situation in the early seventies was that there were numerous trading firms—English, French and German—on the Oil rivers, where the export trade in palm oil had begun to assume importance, the imports being chiefly confined to spirits, guns and powder. The expeditions sent by the British Government to the higher river, and the subsidies voted by Parliament, had been withdrawn, and European intercourse with the Niger would have ceased had it not been for the perseverance of a few British firms, who, during the four months of high water, each sent a trading steamer up the river, and soon established a few primitive stations, where the white population of Nigeria lived. These bold pioneers were at the mercy of powerful chiefs, and gross outrages were from time to time avenged by the despatch of a light draught gunboat.

At the close of 1877, Mr. Goldie-Taubman—afterwards Sir George Goldie—visited the Niger and recognised that amalgamation of interests and a settled government must replace the chaotic rivalry of traders. With this object in view he determined to secure a charter for a British company. After much negotiation the small British interests, which were the only ones existent on the Niger at that date, were amalgamated in the United African Company in 1879, and in 1881 a charter was applied for. The objection was raised that the capital of the company was too small, and hence the National African Company was formed with a capital of a million sterling, with the object of opening up direct relations with the great chiefs of the interior.

With great energy the new company founded stations, sent out a river flotilla, and pushed up the Niger and Benue, but meanwhile the foresight of Gambetta had prompted the establishment of two French companies, which, being backed by the French Government, acquired a great influence on the lower Niger. Of these the Compagnie du Sénégal had a capital of £600,000, and some 30 French stations were formed, and
while the French flag remained the charter could not, of course, be granted. The energy of Sir George Goldie, however, secured the disappearance of the French flag just in time to announce at the Berlin Conference in 1885 that the British flag alone flew on the Niger, and to secure to Great Britain the guardianship of the international navigation rights on the Niger while the French companies and rival British interests which had meantime grown up were absorbed in the National African Company.

In April, 1885, a new danger arose from the mission of Herr Flegel to secure treaties with Sokoto and Gwandu on behalf of Germany, but he was anticipated by the British company, who concluded treaties with those powerful emirs. Great Britain was, therefore, able to conclude the agreement of 1886 with Germany, which settled the frontiers between Nigeria and the Cameroons as far north as Yola, and in July, 1886, the long-delayed charter was granted, and the company changed its title to that of the Royal Niger Company. Meanwhile, the territories adjacent to the river had been placed under British protection.

The first decade was spent in founding a number of commercial and quasi-administrative stations on the Niger and Benue Rivers, and in making treaties with the native tribes, and consolidating the commercial organisation on which the company was dependent for its revenue. The expeditions of Monteil to Lake Chad from the west, of Crampnel from the south-east, and of Mizon by way of the Niger and Benue, were checkmated, and finally, in 1890, an agreement was arrived at with France by which the line dividing the French Sudan on the north from Nigeria was drawn with certain deflections from Say, on the Niger, to Barua, on Lake Chad, and in 1893 the Cameroons boundary was extended from Yola to the south of the same lake.

In 1897 the growing hostility of the great Fulani Power culminated in a plan to drive the white men out of the country. The company were not unprepared, and they took the field with some 500 or 600 soldiers, led by about 30 British officers, against many thousands of the enemy, of whom a large proportion were mounted. Nupe, a dependency of Sokoto, which had thus challenged the company's existence, was divided by the Niger into two nearly equal portions. The southern portion was first conquered, and then northern Nupe after a two days' fight before the capital at Bida. Ilorin, a smaller dependency, was next subdued. Prior to this southern Nupe had been partially cleared of the Fulani slave raiders, and on 20th June, 1897, the legal status of slavery in the Niger territories was declared abolished by the company.

Simultaneously with this crisis another, which was to have far-reaching effects arose. The only indeterminate frontier remaining was that to the west. The company perceiving, in 1894, that French enterprise contemplated the annexation to Senegal and Dahomey of the Borgu country, sent out Captain Lugard (later Lord Lugard) to negotiate treaties with the king or chiefs of that country. Anticipating the powerful French expeditions by only a few days, he succeeded in making treaties at the capital of Nikki, and with other semi-independent chiefs of districts. Disregarding these prior British treaties, a swarm of French expeditions spread over Borgu, and having obtained a pledge from our Government that Sir George Goldie's powerful expedition, then in the field against the Fulani, should not advance north of latitude 9°, they invaded Bussa, with which we had a specific treaty of many years standing, and established themselves on the Niger at several points.

At the end of 1897, in view of this situation, the British Government decided to raise an Imperial local force, and the task was confided to Colonel Lugard, who left England in March, 1898. After a period of great tension, during which the British and French troops faced each other, and a conflict was daily imminent, a convention was signed laying down a boundary line from the intersection of the 9th parallel with the frontier of Dahomey to Illo on the Niger, and thence to the northern frontier, which was more accurately defined, to Lake Chad, and to its junction with the Cameroons frontier. Meanwhile, the Emir installed at Bida by the company was ousted, and the Nupes were again in arms, while the army of Rabeh, which had penetrated from the Nile Valley to Lake Chad, conquered and laid waste the territory of Bornu, but eventually returned to the south of Lake Chad.

The Imperial force, called the West African Frontier Force, with a "Commissioner and Commandant" at its head, and independent of the Company, was rapidly being formed, with its headquarters at Jebba, and with numerous detachments holding the posts evacuated by the French throughout Borgu, and a strong garrison at Lokoja.

The Imperial Government having decided that the charter of the Royal Niger Company should be revoked, and that its administrative rights and powers should be transferred to the Crown, steps to this end were taken at the end of 1898, when the convention with the French Government had been signed. The actual transfer of the Company's rights and possessions to the Crown took place on the 1st of January, 1900, when the territories north of a line extending, with deflections, from approximately latitude 9° on the Dahomey frontier to Idah on the River Niger, thence to Takum on the Cameroons border, were formed into the protectorate of Northern Nigeria under Colonel Lugard as High Commissioner.

During the first years of the protectorate of Northern Nigeria, the Government was engaged in bringing under control the powerful Emirates of the Hausa States and the Kanuri Kingdom of Bornu. These Emirs, who maintained large standing armies, a large proportion of which was mounted, annually took the field and devastated vast tracts of country in slave-raiding expeditions. Despite the treaty with Sokoto, under which the Royal Niger Company paid him an annual subsidy, the Fulani Emirates now defied the Government. The Emirs of Nupe and Kontagora were brought under control in 1901; Yola, Bauchi and Bornu in 1902; and the work of pacification was practically completed in 1903 with the taking of Kano and Sokoto, and the action at Birni. Since that date the Hausa States have maintained a record of peaceful progress, with the exception of a rising by a so-called "Mahdi" in 1906 at Satiri in the Sokoto province. It was necessary also to send minor expeditions against various unruly and truculent pagan tribes.

In addition to the pacification of these vast areas—hitherto largely unexplored—the early years of the protectorate were devoted to creating a civil government in all its departments; the building of the first light railway from Barijuko (on the navigable Kaduna) to Zungeru (22 miles),
to which place the seat of Government was transferred in 1902 from the temporary capital at Jebba; and the opening up of communications both by land and by the navigable waterways of the Niger, Benue, Kaduna and Gongola Rivers.

In the political and administrative sphere a complete civil service was created, which increased from half a dozen officers in 1900 to an establishment of 132 residents and assistants in 1913. The guiding principle of the Administration was indirect rule through the native chiefs, the powers delegated to whom varied with their degree of enlightenment. A form of direct taxation was evolved, based on the elaborate system which obtained in the Hausa States prior to the British occupation, but shorn of its abuses. The collection of these taxes was made through the chiefs, a fixed proportion of them being retained in "Native Treasuries," from which the salaries of the native officials were paid.

The Oil Rivers Protectorate.—When, in 1885, the British Government at the conference of the European powers, held at Berlin, was able to obtain acknowledgment of the fact that a British protectorate had been virtually established over the Niger districts, an Order in Council defining them was made, and the portion lying on the coast line was designated the Oil Rivers Protectorate, and placed under Consular rule.

In 1891 the rule of the Consul over the Oil Rivers Protectorate was exchanged for that of a Commissioner and Consul-General, stationed at Old Calabar (now Calabar), while Deputy Commissioner and Vice-Consuls were appointed to the Rivers Benin, Bonny, Brass and Forcados, and to the districts of Sapele and Warri.

By an Order in Council of 1893 the Oil Rivers Protectorate was extended definitely into the hinterland under the name of the Niger Coast Protectorate, and an administration established under an Imperial Commissioner and Consul-General.

Benin.—In 1892 Captain Gallwey (now Sir H. L. Galway) concluded a treaty with the king of Benin. As time passed, however, it became evident that this potentate had no intention of adhering to its provisions.

At this period Benin held enormous power over the surrounding territory. The terrible nature of the fetish rites and the wholesale human sacrifices, which took place in Benin City, urgently demanded European intervention and the introduction of civilised rule.

Early in 1897 a peaceful mission, organised by the Acting Consul-General to establish friendly relations with Oyerami, the King of Benin, and to induce him to carry out the terms of the treaty of 1892, was treacherously attacked, and with the exception of two, all the European members of the party were massacred. A powerful expedition was sent against Benin, and in a short time the capital had been captured, but the King made good his escape. The state in which Benin City was found passes all description. In every direction human remains, pits filled with bodies in various stages of decomposition, and altars dripping with fresh human blood were to be seen.

The Protectorate of Southern Nigeria, 1900–1906. When in 1900 the charter of the Royal Niger Company was revoked by the Crown, that portion of its territories lying between Idah and the coast was added to the Niger Coast Protectorate. At the same time by an Order-in-Council the Niger Coast Protectorate was constituted the Protectorate of Southern Nigeria, the administration being transferred from the Foreign Office to the Colonial Office, and placed under Sir R. Moor as High Commissioner. In 1901 the Niger Coast Protectorate troops were organised into a regiment of the West African Frontier Force, and remodelled on the lines of the original corps of that name raised in the Niger Company's territories by Colonel F. D. Lugard in 1898.

Towards the close of 1901 preparations for the Aro expedition were commenced. These operations were directed against the southern Ibo people in general and the Aro, or Inokun tribe in particular. The Aros, who may be described as the dominant section of the great Ibo family, held paramount power over a large extent of country lying between the Niger and Cross Rivers. They had established a powerful fetish, probably derived from Benin, known as the Long Juju, which exercised an extremely evil influence on the ignorant and superstitious natives for miles around. After five months of arduous work, the Frontier Force accomplished the subjugation and disarmament of the Aro tribe, the destruction of the Long Juju and the bringing under Government control of that portion of the territories as far north as about the 5th parallel.

Between 1905 and 1909 several expeditions were sent into the hinterland with the object of opening to trade and civilisation previously unexplored tracts of country. The principal operations were the Bende-Onitsha Hinterland Expedition, 1905–06, and the Niger-Cross River Expedition, 1908–09.

The eastern frontier from the Cross River rapids to the sea was surveyed by an Anglo-German Commission in 1905–06; and from Cross River rapids to Yola in 1907–09. For some years before these delimitations, there were frequent raids across the border by German native soldiery from the Cameroons, which were invariably accompanied by robbery with violence and seizure; and even after the boundary line had been demarcated this violation of British territory did not cease.

Logos or Eko.—During the reign of Kosoko, Lagos, or Eko, became the chief centre of the slave trade in the Bight of Benin. Akitoye, his cousin, from whom the throne had been usurped, issued a proclamation to the effect that he would make common cause with the British against slavery if he were reinstated. Acting on this statement, the British Government took decisive measures, and in 1851 a party of bluejackets from Her Majesty's warships attacked and reduced the town. Kosoko fled and Akitoye was restored to power. In 1852 Akitoye and his chiefs signed a treaty by the terms of which they agreed to abolish the export of slaves, and to encourage the work of missionaries. A consul was appointed to Lagos for the protection of British interests. Dosumu, who succeeded his father Akitoye, was unable to adhere to the terms of the treaty, and was induced in 1861 to cede the sovereignty of Lagos and dependent territories to the Crown in consideration of a pension, which he continued to draw until his death in 1885.

The Colony of Lagos.—In 1862 these territories were erected into a colony, and the following year Kosoko, who in 1854 had been acknowledged king of Lekki and Palma, districts lying to the eastward, ceded these places to the Lagos Government. At the same time protectorate rights were established over Ado and Oke-Odan
on the west. In 1866 the colony became a portion of the West African Settlements, retaining a separate Legislative Council, but being subject to the Governor-in-Chief at Sierra Leone. In 1874 the colony, which extended from Badagri on the west to Odi on the east with an indefinite inland boundary, was united to the Gold Coast Colony.

In 1883 Appa, lying on the western border of the colony, was the next district to be brought under British jurisdiction. In 1884, the British Consul concluded a treaty with the Jekris by which their country as far as Mollume was placed under British protection, and similar treaties were made with the chiefs of Ogbo and Mahin, small tribal areas situated in the creek region to the eastward. In 1886 the Lagos territories were separated from the Gold Coast and erected into a separate colony and protectorate. Between the years 1886 and 1895 Mahin, Ijebu-Ro, Itebu and Aiyesan to the east, and Kotonu, Igbessa, Ado and Ilaro to the west were proclaimed part of the protectorate. An expedition was sent against the Ijebus in 1892, which resulted in the military occupation of their country, and in the opening of a most important trade route to the interior.

From this time onward British influence gradually spread inland towards the Niger, and in 1899 the protectorate was extended to the confines of Northern Nigeria and to the border of the Niger Coast Protectorate. The country generally prospered, and Lagos became a great trading port with many large mercantile firms, both European and native, established. Great trade routes were opened into the interior, and a railway was constructed from Lagos to Ibadan, passing through a thickly populated and fertile agricultural country.

The Colony and Protectorate of Southern Nigeria, 1906-1913.—In 1906 the colony of Lagos and its protected territory were amalgamated with the protectorate of Southern Nigeria under one administration and designated the Colony and Protectorate of Southern Nigeria. For administrative purposes the country was partitioned into three main divisions—the Western Province, which coincided with the former Colony and Protectorate of Lagos; and the Central and Eastern Provinces, which previously formed the Protectorate of Southern Nigeria.

The next few years were spent in building up an extensive system of communications. The railway from Lagos to Ibadan was extended over the Northern Nigeria border to Jebba; thence across the Niger to Zungeru; and finally linked up with the railway in operation from Baro on the Niger to Kano. A light railway was built joining the main line at Zaria with the tin fields of Bauchi. Broad main roads were driven in all directions and telegraph lines constructed between important administrative and trade centres.

In 1901 the great undertaking of making Lagos an open port by the construction of huge moles and by the dredging of the sandbar, which obstructed the entrance to the harbour, was commenced; and by the end of 1913 sufficient progress had been made to permit of large ocean-going steamers entering the harbour and berthing alongside the wharves. For several years vessels drawing 25 feet of water have been able to use the harbour.

Large areas in the north-eastern portion of the protectorate, notably the country inhabited by the warlike and hitherto intractable Munshi people, were brought under Government supervision.

The Amalgamation of Northern and Southern Nigeria, 1914.—By Letters Patent of 29th November, 1913, and an Order-in-Council dated 22nd November, 1913, which instruments came into operation on 1st January, 1914, the Colony and Protectorate of Southern Nigeria and the Protectorate of Northern Nigeria were formed into the Colony and Protectorate of Nigeria. By another order of the same date the boundaries of the colony of Nigeria were defined, and by a third order, which applied to the colony and to the protectorate, an advisory and deliberative body known as the Nigerian Council was established.

Provision was made for an Executive Council and for a Legislative Council for the colony. The legislative power for the protectorate was vested in the Governor. The colony was placed under an Administrator, and the protectorate, divided into two groups of provinces—Northern and Southern—under two Lieutenant-Governors.

Since the amalgamation, the chief events in the history of Nigeria between the Great War (1914-18), which resulted in the conquest of the Cameroons, and the 1939-45 War, in which Nigerian troops fought with distinction both in East Africa and in Burma have been the institution in 1923 of an enlarged and partly elected Legislative Council for the Colony and Southern Provinces of the Protectorate, replaced in 1947 by a broader constitution comprising a Legislative Council which legislates for the whole of Nigeria, and three Regional Houses of Assembly and a House of Chiefs (see under "Constitution"); the building of the Eastern Railway, and the development of the ports of Lagos and Port Harcourt and of the Government Colliery at Enugu; the two great trade booms and the depressions which succeeded them; the introduction of direct taxation in the Southern Provinces; and the establishment of air communications both within Nigeria and with the outside world.

The Cameroons.—The conquest of the Cameroons was completed in February, 1916, after a series of operations which commenced in August, 1914.

An Anglo-French military and naval force under the command of Brigadier-General C. Dobell (afterwards Major-General Sir C. Dobell), the Inspector General of the West African Frontier Force, compelled Duala to surrender on 27th September, 1914, and after hard fighting drove the German forces from the surrounding districts.

On 10th June, 1915, Garua, on the River Benue, fell after a siege of a few weeks by forces from Nigeria and the French Chad Territory under the command of Brigadier-General Cunliffe, the Commandant of the Nigeria Regiment, R.W.A.F.F.; having cleared the north of the Cameroons, except Mora, these forces marched southwards driving the Germans before them to the Sanaga River.

French forces, with a Belgian contingent from the Congo, invaded the Cameroons from French Equatorial Africa under the command of General Ameyrich and gradually pushed forward from the south-east and south towards Yaunde, which had become the headquarters of the German forces. Finally the main German forces, being almost surrounded by the converging advance of the Allied troops, retreated southwards into the Spanish territory of Muni, where they were interned, and the isolated garrison of Mora in the north then surrendered.
By an arrangement which came into effect on 1st April, 1916, the Cameroons was provisionally divided into British and French spheres. The British sphere (about 31,150 square miles in extent) consisted of two portions. The smaller, in the extreme north was intended to include the whole of the Sultanate of Dikwa or German Bornu. The larger consisted of a strip of country bordering on Nigeria, about 400 miles in length and with a maximum width of 80 miles, extending from about 30 miles south of Yola to the Cameroon estuary. It included Buea, the German administrative capital of the Cameroons, and the ports of Victoria, Tiko, and Rio del Rey, and consisted of nearly the whole of the Victoria District, the Kumba (or Johann Albrechtshöhe) District, the Ossidinge District, part of the Chang District, the Bamenda District, and parts of the Banyo and Garua Districts.

The population of the British sphere at the last census in 1931 was 778,352.

The rest of the Cameroons, about 275,000 square miles, with Duala and Kribi, the chief ports, was assigned to France. Boundary adjustments with the French took place in 1920 in accordance with an agreement signed by Lord Milner and M. Simon on 10th July, 1919. The principal features of these were the transfer to the British of the country west of the Mandara mountains from the Dikwa Sultanate in the north to the River Tiel in the south, and the transfer of nearly all the Chang District to the French.

The British sphere was placed under the control of the Governor of Nigeria, and the parts of the sphere to the north of the Bamenda District were administered by the staffs of the adjoining Nigerian provinces of Bornu and Yola. The Bamenda, Ossidinge, Kumba and Victoria districts were administered as a separate Cameroons province with four divisions (Bamenda, Mamfe, Victoria, Kumba) under a resident stationed at Buea, responsible to the Governor of Nigeria through the Lieutenant-Governor of the Southern Provinces. The large German cocoa, rubber and banana plantations in the Victoria district, with about 48,000 acres under cultivation, were placed in the charge of a plantation department, in order that they might be kept in good order as far as possible until their mode of disposal was settled. They were sold by auction in November, 1924.

By the Treaty of Versailles, Germany renounced in favour of the Principal Allied and Associated Powers all her rights over the Cameroons.

In October, 1921, the Council of the League approved in principle the division of the country and the application of the mandate system to those territories, and on 20th July, 1922, after a delay due to negotiations between the United States Government and the Mandatory Powers, the Council confirmed the mandates and defined their terms*.

By an Order in Council, dated 1923 and brought into force in February, 1924, and by Nigerian Ordinance No. 3 of 1924, provision was made for the future government of the British sphere as if it were part of the Protectorate of Nigeria. Under these enactments, the Cameroons Province is administered and legislated for as if it formed one of the southern provinces of the protectorate, while the northern parts are administered and legislated for as if they formed parts of the northern provinces of Bornu and Yola; and most of the laws of Nigeria are applied to the British sphere, subject to the terms of the mandate as regards the few provisions thereof which are not in accordance with ordinary Nigerian law and practice.

In January, 1946, H.M. Government announced to the first session of the General Assembly of the United Nations their intention of placing the Cameroons under the international trusteeship system established by the United Nations Charter, and on the 14th December, 1946, the General Assembly approved a Trusteeship Agreement for the Cameroons. The change in status of the territory from being under British Mandate to one under United Kingdom Trusteeship was embodied in the Nigeria (Protectorate and Cameroons) Order in Council, 1949

In November, 1949, a Visiting Mission from the Trusteeship Council of the United Nations toured the Cameroons. Their report was published in 1950.

CONSTITUTION

The territorial divisions of Nigeria are the Colony of Nigeria and the Protectorate, the latter being divided into three Regions, namely, the "Northern Provinces", the "Eastern Provinces" and the "Western Provinces". The territory of the Cameroons is administered as an integral part of Nigeria in accordance with a Trusteeship Agreement dated the 14th of December, 1946.

A new constitution replacing that of 1922 came into being on the 1st of January, 1947. The government of the Colony is now provided for by Letters Patent of 2nd August, 1946, and that of the Protectorate and the Cameroons by the Nigeria (Protectorate and Cameroons) Order in Council, 1946, of the same date. The Royal Instructions of 2nd August, 1946, also make provision for the government of both the Colony and the Protectorate (including the Cameroons).

These constitutional instruments provide for an Executive Council, consisting of the Chief Secretary to the Government, the three Chief Commissioners, the Attorney-General, the Financial Secretary, the Director of Medical Services, the Director of Education (ex-officio), and such Appointed Members as may be appointed by Royal Warrant or Instructions, or by the Governor on Instructions received through the Secretary of State.

Provision for the constitution and powers of a Legislative Council for Nigeria, including the Colony, the Protectorate and the Cameroons, is made by the Nigeria (Legislative Council) Order in Council, 1946, which also provides for the establishment and functions of a House of Chiefs and a House of Assembly for the Northern Provinces (which together form the Northern Regional Council) and Houses of Assembly for the Western and Eastern Provinces.

The Legislative Council consists of:

- The Governor, as President.
- Thirteen ex-officio Members, viz., the ex-officio Members of the Executive Council, the Development Secretary, the Director of Agriculture, the Director of Public Works, the Commissioner of Labour, and the Commissioner of the Colony.
- Three Nominated Official Members, being three Residents, one from each Region, appointed by the Governor for each meeting of the Council.

---

* For text of the British mandate see Cmd. 1794.
Twenty-four Nominated Unofficial Members, viz., four Members appointed by and from the House of Chiefs; five members appointed by and from the Northern House of Assembly; two Members, being Chiefs, appointed by the Governor from the Western House of Assembly; four Members appointed by and from the Western House of Assembly; five Members appointed by and from the Eastern House of Assembly; and four Members appointed by the Governor, one representing the Colony, and three representing interests not otherwise adequately represented.

Four elected Members; three elected by persons resident within the municipal area of Lagos, and one elected by persons resident within the municipal area of Calabar.

The qualifications for registration as a voter in Lagos or Calabar are that the voter must be a male person who (a) is a British subject or British Protected person of the age of 21 years or upwards; (b) has been ordinarily resident in the municipal area for the year immediately preceding the 1st October in the year of registration; and (c) was, during the aforesaid period, in receipt of a gross annual income from all sources of not less than £50.

The House of Chiefs is presided over by the Chief Commissioner, Northern Provinces, and consists of all first class Chiefs and not less than ten Members selected from among their own number by second class Chiefs of the Northern Provinces.

The Northern House of Assembly consists of 19 official members and not less than 20 nor more than 24 Unofficial Members. The Official Members are the Senior Resident of the Northern Provinces (President), 12 Residents (the Secretary, Northern Provinces being regarded as a Resident); the Secretary (Finance), Northern Provinces, the Regional Deputy Directors of Medical Services, Education, Agriculture and Public Works, and the Senior Crown Counsel, Northern Provinces. The Unofficial Members are six persons appointed by the Governor to represent interests not otherwise adequately represented, the remainder being Provincial Members selected by the Native Authorities in accordance with a procedure laid down in Directions issued by the Governor.

The Western House of Assembly consists of 14 Official Members and not less than 15, nor more than 19, Unofficial Members. The Official Members are the Chief Commissioner for the Western Provinces (President), seven Residents (the Secretary, Western Provinces, being regarded as a Resident), the Secretary (Finance), Western Provinces; the Regional Deputy Directors of Medical Services, Education, Agriculture and Public Works, and the Senior Crown Counsel, Western Provinces. The Unofficial Members are five persons appointed by the Governor to represent interests not otherwise adequately represented, the remainder being Provincial Members selected by the Native Authorities in accordance with a procedure laid down in Directions issued by the Governor.

The Eastern House of Assembly consists of 14 Official Members and not less than 15, nor more than 18, Unofficial Members. The Official Members are the Chief Commissioner for the Eastern Provinces (President), seven Residents (the Secretary, Eastern Provinces, being regarded as a Resident), the Secretary (Finance), Eastern Provinces, the Regional Deputy Directors of Medical Services, Education, Agriculture and Public Works, and the Senior Crown Counsel, Eastern Provinces. The Unofficial Members are five persons appointed by the Governor to represent interests not otherwise adequately represented, the remainder being Provincial Members selected by the Native Authorities in accordance with a procedure laid down in Directions issued by the Governor.

The House of Chiefs and the Houses of Assembly have no legislative powers. Their functions, in addition to appointing members to the Legislative Council, and such others as may be prescribed, are to consider and make recommendations with respect to the annual regional estimates, and to advise upon all Bills, before they are introduced into the Legislative Council, with the exception of Appropriation Bills and Bills which are in their terms inapplicable to the region concerned.

During 1949 a review of the constitution, in consultation with representatives of the people from district level upwards, was started. From the series of conferences which were held at district, provincial and regional level, it was apparent that there was a large measure of agreement on the need for increased autonomy in the regions. The recommendations of these conferences, consolidated into a single report by a Drafting Committee, were considered by the General Conference, which met at Ibadan in January, 1950. The proposals as amended then came before the Regional Houses and the Legislative Council, which appointed a Select Committee to consider them. The major point of difficulty at this stage was the composition of the central legislature and further reference to the Regional Houses was necessary, before a final agreement on this point was reached in September, 1950.

The proposals that have emerged from this consultation have been generally accepted by His Majesty’s Government, and it is intended to bring them into force in 1951. Larger and more representative regional legislatures are to be set up with increased powers, including the right to legislate for the region on specified subjects. To give Nigerians a full share in the shaping of Government policy, there will be a Council of 18 Ministers, including 12 non-official members, chosen from the legislature and presided over by the Governor, while Executive Councils with a majority of unofficial members will be established in the Regions. In the new central legislature (a single house of 148 members), it has been agreed that the Northern Region should have a representation equal to that of the other two regions combined. The detailed system of election has still to be worked out. A Privy Council is to be set up at the centre to advise the Governor on the exercise of clemency in capital cases.

**ADMINISTRATION**

Nigeria is arranged in four main divisions, the Colony and three groups of provinces designated the Northern Provinces, the Western Provinces and the Eastern Provinces. The Colony comprises the former colony of Southern Nigeria, while the three groups of provinces are formed from the late protectorates of Northern and Southern Nigeria.

The Northern Provinces are Adamawa, Bauchi, Benue, Bornu, Ilorin, Kabba, Kano, Katsina, Niger, Plateau, Sokoto and Zaria.

The Western Provinces are Abeokuta, Benin, Ijebu, Oyo, Ondo and Warri.
The Eastern Provinces are Calabar, Cameroons, Bamenda, Ogoja, Onitsha, Owerri and Rivers.

The provinces are each partitioned into divisions.

The seat of government and the place of residence of the Governor is Lagos, which is also the headquarters of the Commissioner who administers the Colony. Each of the groups of provinces is administered by a Chief Commissioner, responsible to the Governor, with headquarters at Kaduna (Northern Provinces), Enugu (Eastern Provinces) and Ibadan (Western Provinces). The Cameroons and Bamenda Provinces are administered by the Commissioner of the Cameroons, who is responsible to the Chief Commissioner, Eastern Provinces.

Each province is under the control of a Resident, who is assisted by a staff of district officers and assistant district officers who have charge of the various divisions into which the province is divided. The residents and their assistants are responsible for the detailed administration of the country.

The colony is in the charge of a Commissioner assisted by a staff of district officers and assistant district officers.

Native Authorities.—In the early days of administration in the Northern Provinces the system known as "indirect rule" was set up. The effect of this system is that to-day the functions of government are for the most part carried out through native chiefs and councils with the assistance and advice of the British administrative staff. The native authorities are responsible, through the administrative staff, to the Government for the peace and good order of their respective areas. Certain essential services are also undertaken by the native authorities and are maintained and paid for out of the revenue obtained from a share of the taxes collected by them, the whole of the native court receipts, and various minor fees. The revenue of each native treasury is shown in annual estimates, together with the expenditure for the year, drawn up with the advice of the administrative staff and approved by the Chief Commissioner, but not subject to the control of the Legislative Council or Regional Houses.

Between 1919 and 1928 the system of indirect rule was introduced generally into the Southern Provinces. These native authorities are gradually assuming, with increasing efficiency and confidence, a greater share of the responsibility for administration previously borne entirely by the Government. A system of local government bodies, to be called County, District and Local Councils is at present being introduced into the Eastern Provinces.

SOCIAL SERVICES

Education

Owing to the impossibility of obtaining precise statistics during the war years, the figures given are approximate only.

Number of children in Nigeria of school age, i.e., between 7 and 14 years.

Number of children attending primary schools.

Thus approximately 27 per cent. of children of school age available receive a primary schooling, whilst some 13,353 children attend secondary schools. The University College at Ibadan opened in January, 1948, with 108 students. At the beginning of the academic year in October, 1950, the students numbered 298.

The incidence of schools varies greatly throughout the country. Although the Northern Provinces contain more than one-half of the total population the percentage of children attending school is only about 3-5 per cent. Even in the Southern Provinces, where the schools are generally much more popular, the degree of popularity varies enormously. As schooling is not compulsory, the supply of educational facilities has broadly followed the popular demand. The proportion of girls to boys attending is about 1:4 for the whole country but this proportion, varies widely in different areas. Institutions for the training of teachers, male and female, are owned and maintained by Government and by voluntary agencies.

Schools are owned and maintained by Government, by voluntary agencies, by native authorities, and by private individuals. The voluntary societies are mainly, though not exclusively, Christian missionary bodies. The educational institutions maintained directly by Government are few, comprising:

- 9 Secondary schools.
- 33 Primary schools.
- 10 Training institutions for teachers.

In the most northerly provinces of the country, where the population is generally Mohammedan, the majority of the schools are maintained by the native authorities. In other areas the chief educational agencies are the missionary societies and the native churches that have developed under their aegis. Voluntary Moslem societies play a small but increasing part. The number of schools owned by non-denominational African societies and by private individuals is growing.

All schools are subject to inspection by the Department of Education. The estimated expenditure by Government on education for the current financial year is £2,385,000 in addition to large amounts being expended on educational development projects. £1,607,000 of this sum is spent on grants to voluntary agencies and Native Authorities. The ordinary recurrent expenditure on education amounts to approximately 10 per cent. of the estimated revenue of the country. The native authorities also spend about £350,000. In addition a large but uncertain sum, much of which is raised from local sources, is spent by the voluntary agencies.

Technical Training

The Department's scheme of technical education has made considerable progress; a Technical Institute and three Trade Centres have been opened. The object of this scheme is to produce the skilled and independent artisans who are so greatly needed.

Information Services

The Public Relations Department continued to expand in 1949 and 1950. Over 4,000 press releases are issued from headquarters each year and press conferences, which are well attended, are held weekly. In 1949 the Department's own Film Production Unit was formed and a new Photographic Section came into being. The Process Engraving Section continued its work while the publication of the various papers, for which the Department is responsible, proceeded.
Ambitious plans for the expansion of Nigerian broadcasting have been made. An experienced B.B.C. administrator is being seconded to head the new service and money has been made available by the Nigerian and by the U.K. Governments.

**Health**

The provision of health facilities has been governed largely by considerations of finance and communications. Health services vary in different parts of the country according to the willingness of the people to accept the benefits offered by modern medicine. 75 Government and native administration hospitals provide some 5,652 beds, and mission institutions a further 2,547. There are 198 Government medical officers and 123 mission doctors and private practitioners.

The Virus Research Institute (formerly the Yellow Fever Research Institute) at Lagos, while primarily engaged in research also undertakes the storage, testing and distribution of vaccines to various territories in West Africa. The Sleeping Sickness Service, in greater part financed from Colonial Development Funds, carries on with the mass examination and treatment of the population for sleeping sickness.

A number of field units are now operating, the ultimate aim being one unit per province for the mass survey and treatment of all epidemic and preventible diseases with measures to improve local sanitation and nutrition.

A small but efficient laboratory service is maintained which, besides being responsible for routine pathological and bacteriological examinations, undertakes the preparation of various vaccines, including the production of small-pox vaccine in the form of lanolated sheep lymph on a scale large enough to export appreciable quantities to other colonies in the region. Antirabic vaccine is also produced in quantities sufficient for internal use and export to other British West African colonies.

The former Medical School conducted at Yaba was transferred at the end of 1948 to Ibadan and a much larger scheme for training in medicine was instituted. There are now two Pharmacy Schools, one at Lagos and one at Zaria, for the training of pharmacy students. The training of health inspectorate staff is carried out up to a standard set by the local branch of the Royal Sanitary Institute, while the training of subordinate hospital staff—nurses and midwives—is undertaken at various centres throughout the country. The educational standard of new entrants has been raised and admission is now through Preliminary Training Schools.

A widespread system of dispensaries has been developed throughout the country financed by native administrations, and these cater for the common ailments among the rural population, providing treatment for malaria, yaws and other endemic disease of high incidence.

The births and deaths of non-natives are compulsorily registerable throughout Nigeria, and compulsory registration of the local population under the Births, Deaths and Burials Ordinance is in force in various townships.

The Nigeria Leprosy Service, founded with the aid of Colonial Development Funds and with the co-operation of the British Empire Leprosy Relief Association has been taking over and extending the work of the mission institutions in the Eastern Provinces of Nigeria where the incidence of the disease is highest. A number of new drugs are on trial, while at Ibadan plans for the West African Institute for Leprosy Research proceed.

Further details concerning health facilities in the territory may be found in the annual reports of the Medical Department.

**Labour**

The first Labour Code was enacted in 1929 and a section of the Nigerian Secretariat was opened to deal with labour matters. In 1942 a separate Department of Labour was created. Its activities include industrial relations, wages inspectorate, factory inspection, trade testing, compilation of labour statistics and advice to trade unions. Labour Advisory Boards have completed inquiries into the wages and conditions of employment in a number of trades and occupations. Orders in Council, based on the Boards' recommendations and fixing minimum wages and conditions, have been made for the tailoring, shirt-making and ancillary trades and the printing and motor trades in Lagos, the rubber industry of the Benin province and the tin industry on the Bauchi Plateau. Adult and juvenile employment exchanges were opened in Lagos in December, 1943, and a juvenile exchange was opened in Ibadan in September, 1946. Adult employment exchanges were opened in Benin in October, 1946, Sapele in May, 1947, and Jos in September, 1948. A school leaver's registry was established in Enugu on the 1st October, 1947. There is a juvenile advisory and after-care committee in Lagos. Requests for departmental registration by the Public Works Department are being met. Regional headquarters have been established in the Northern, Western and Eastern Provinces and the Colony of Lagos in order that the Chief Commissioners and the Commissioner of the Colony may avail themselves of the advice of Senior Labour Officers and experts on labour problems. The old Labour Code of 1929 has been replaced by a more comprehensive Labour Code Ordinance embodying those International Labour Office conventions which His Majesty's Government has agreed to observe in relation to the colonies. The new code came into operation in April, 1946. Over 130 trade unions have been registered under the Trade Unions Ordinance. A Nigerian Trades Union Congress came into being in 1943, and this was merged in the Nigerian Labour Congress in 1950. Schemes approved for the training and employment of ex-servicemen are supervised by the Commissioner of Labour. A scheme for recruitment of Nigerian labour for the Spanish territory of Fernando Po has been in operation since 1943, and a similar scheme to recruit labour for the French Gabon started in 1950. The Department publishes a quarterly review containing statistics and articles of general interest concerning labour matter. Further information may be found in the annual report of the department.

**Welfare**

Organised Social Welfare work is confined to Lagos and Calabar but surveys are now being carried out which will form the basis of new organisations at Port Harcourt and Zaria. In Lagos the emphasis has largely shifted from the remedial aspect to the constructive. This positive outlook is exemplified by the strength of the growing Boys' Club movement and, to an even greater degree by the pilot rural welfare scheme. The work of this unit is based on the idea that the
dynamic for better living must flow from the people themselves. Improvement can only be firmly established if the people want it and are prepared to demonstrate in a practical manner their intention of seeking it. Self help must be the keynote. For this reason, the village institute, a building which must be erected by the people before they become eligible under this scheme, is used as a symbol. The focal point is the Institute with its resident rural welfare worker. The Management Committee, responsible for the upkeep of the institute and for the maintenance of the various clubs based upon it, fosters a sense of responsibility towards the affairs of the village and gives any villager with initiative or a sense of social responsibility a new opportunity to exercise it. In each of the five villages where the scheme is working, it has been found that of recent years communal spirit has deteriorated and aspects of village life, such as the provision of clean drinking water, have been neglected with unfortunate results. Dissensions and quarrels account for a great deal of backwardness in the villages, and it is in the drawing together of the people for united effort with a common purpose that the particular technique of the social worker has been found effective. In each village, the people have come to look upon the rural worker as a friend engaged upon a common task and to make use of the services of other Government Departments, of which they were unaware or to which they were actively antagonistic. The departments collaborating have been Provincial Administration, Medical and Health Services, Public Relations, Agriculture, and Education. Voluntary bodies have been the Boy Scouts, Girl Guides and the C.M.S. and African Churches. Social Welfare workers have taught housewifery, child care, needlework, laundry work, soap making and weaving.

The struggle against the various social evils was greatly assisted by the coming into force of the Children and Young Persons' Ordinance, 1943, and by the opening of the first Juvenile Court of Nigeria. This legislation granted to the Welfare Officers much-needed powers to deal with child prostitution and to prohibit the employment of children as hawkers; and intensive measures have been taken.

Juvenile Courts have now been set up in Lagos and Calabar, the first presided over by the Chief Registrar and the second by the Magistrate, sitting with panels of prominent local citizens as assessors. It is encouraging that the voluntary assessors should have come to feel considerable interest not only in the hearing of the cases but in the subsequent fortunes of the juveniles brought before them. Care has been taken to ensure whenever possible the presence of the parents or guardians before the court.

Remand Homes serving as places of detention for convicted boys and of remand for those awaiting trial in the Juvenile Court were established, one in the Colony and one in Calabar. The committal of young offenders to prisons in those areas has virtually ceased.

Probation and Assistant Probation Officers have been appointed in both areas and have done valuable work. The Probation Case Committees have been of great benefit to the Probation Officers and a source of satisfaction to the Magistrates. The Probation Officers dealt with a large volume of ancillary duties, reports to Courts, domestic conciliation and allied social work. One of the main difficulties experienced by the Courts was in the assessment of the individual's suitability for probation. Boys with no previous convictions were found to have lived on the fringe of the law for a number of years. Many parents were unco-operative and uncommunicative because they hoped their sons would be sent to residential training institutions rather than that they should be subjected to reformative supervision in their own homes. On the whole, girls responded to probation better than boys. It was thought that the institution of Court No. 5 in Lagos, designed primarily to adjudicate in native law and custom disputes would render the conciliation work of the Family Welfare unit redundant but the public have shewn that they prefer conciliation in private to judicial decision in public.

Approved institutions have been established at Isheri in the Colony of Lagos and at Enugu. Progress has been made both in general education and in the instruction of the inmates in crafts that will stand them in good stead in later life. The Welfare Officers regard the after-care of these boys as being of special importance, and every effort is made to provide them with suitable employment after their discharge from school.

The Boys' Hostel, Bola Street, Lagos, was opened in October, 1947, to house waifs and strays temporarily. A team of welfare workers scours the streets one night every week and brings in any juveniles found sleeping out, who have no home in Lagos, and a special investigation Board meets once a week to consider the case of each boy. A full-time social worker obtains beforehand as much information about the boy as possible and in most cases is able to produce some relative or countryman who knows of the boy or his home. After considering each case, the Board considers what form of action will be appropriate, repatriation being the one most commonly used.

The Girls' Hostel is organized on the same lines as the Boys' Hostel. It has been found that interviewing each girl weekly speeded up disposal of her case and also encouraged better behaviour. Motherless children were boarded out to foster mothers recommended by the Infant Welfare Clinic. The necessity of the moral welfare service can be seen from the number of individuals rescued; 176 in Lagos and 55 in Calabar. A certain number were adolescent girls expressing personal difficulties in sex-delinquency but a proportion were the subjects of dubious transactions carried out under the cloak of native law and custom.

The Boys Club movement is firmly establishing itself. An increasing number of clubs are being assisted financially (25 in all), and a greater degree of self-help and determination is being shewn by the boys themselves. In Lagos there has been formed an association of Boys Club Leaders whose set purpose is to encourage an independent Boys Club movement. Inter-club relationships are promoted by means of organised competitions and through the monthly journal "Young Nigeria". Clubs for educated young ladies are attached either to a church, Government department or a commercial firm. The members tend to regard the club simply as a social affair, and the club worker has attempted to widen the Club programmes by including cookery demonstrations, dramatics, discussion groups, and games. The members' interest is often spasmodic, and these clubs have periodically to be revived, usually after personal quarrels have disrupted them. The club worker has encouraged and helped six of
these clubs during the last year. In Clubs for girls, it is easier to maintain interest, and seven girls clubs are now functioning. The girls are keen on games, handwork, and dramatic work, but any attempt at formal discipline is resented and therefore these clubs are run on very free and easy lines. The clubs have been helped by the provision of initial equipment for games, such as netball posts; the provision of handwork material which the club members buy when completed, thus providing a fund for future purchases; payment of fares of voluntary instructors and the finding and training of voluntary leaders. The dearth of such leaders is the main reason why the number of these clubs does not increase more quickly. The Clubs aim at teaching simple crafts, encouraging physical fitness, stimulating interest in the world around, and providing opportunities for practical experience in cooperation and tolerance and mutual forbearance. The frequent disputes and quarrels show how much this last lesson needs to be learnt. Training courses for Club Leaders have been well-attended.

A Port Welfare Department was set up early in 1943 with the appointment of a Port Welfare Officer, under the general supervision of the Commissioner of the Colony. The duties of the Port Welfare Officer include the general welfare of seamen of all races, and he works in close co-operation with the various institutions established all over the country for the benefit of seamen.

The activities of the Social Welfare Service also include the welfare of lepers, prostitutes and ex-prisoners, the maintenance of play centres for children, the teaching of handicrafts for female prisoners, the boarding out of unwanted children, the after-care of children from approved schools, the assistance of African students in the United Kingdom, the repatriation of indigent or undesirable foreigners, inquiries into the claims of servicemen for discharge on compassionate grounds, and a host of other duties.

**Communications**

**Roads**

The Government has already constructed a very large number of roads, most of which are suitable for motor traffic at all seasons of the year. Plans are in hand for further development. The roads are classified as follows:

Trunk roads "A", form the skeleton trunk road system on which the country is built up. This framework or skeleton consists of two main South to North roads, and four main lateral roads from West to East. The total mileage is 4,375 with a considerable further mileage under construction but not yet opened to traffic.

Trunk roads "B", are roads connecting Provincial or Divisional headquarters and other large towns with the skeleton trunk road system or the railway. The total mileage in this category is over 4,100 and there is a considerable further mileage under construction.

Local feeder roads or unclassified roads form the network of roads serving the areas bounded by the trunk system. The present mileage of such roads is 17,665.

Eight hundred and two miles of all the roads are bituminous surfaced, and the remaining 25,400 miles have gravel or earth surfaces only.

**Railways**

The Nigerian railway, which is a Government system, has a total length of 1,903 miles of main and branch lines. The standard gauge is 3 feet 6 inches but one of the branches (Zaria to Jos—133 miles) is of 2 feet 6 inches gauge. The equipment comprises 268 locomotives; 333 passenger vehicles, including restaurant cars; and 3,638 freight vehicles, including brake vans.

The north-western main line of the railway runs from Lagos to N'guru, a distance of 843 miles. It passes through the important towns of Ibadan (the headquarters of the Western Provinces), Ilorin, Jebba (where it crosses the River Niger), Zungeru, Minna, Kaduna (the headquarters of the Northern Provinces), Zaria and Kano, Iddo (Lagos) which is connected with the mainland by Denton Causeway and with Lagos Island by the Carter Bridge, is the terminus for local traffic; for shipment traffic there is at Apapa, on the mainland side of Lagos harbour, a fully equipped rail-served quay with transit and storage sheds for handling import and export traffic.

The principal export commodities carried on this section are ground-nuts and cotton from the Northern Provinces, and cocoa and oil palm products from stations south of Jebba. General imports and kola nuts form the principal items of north-bound traffic.

The eastern main line runs from Port Harcourt northwards. It passes through a densely populated oil palm area en-route to Enugu (the headquarters of the Eastern Provinces), where it serves the Government coal mines. The line crosses the Benue River at Makurdi and passes through Kafanchan Junction to join the north-western line at Kaduna Junction, a distance of 569 miles from Port Harcourt. From Kafanchan a connecting line runs to Bukuru and Jos, important centres of the tin-mining industry. The tin mines are worked by private companies.

Port Harcourt, on the Bonny River, has a rail-served deep water quay with transit and storage sheds where both export and import traffic is handled. Principal exports are tin and oil nut products while a considerable tonnage of coal is also exported to other West African ports.

There are five branch lines: Ifaw Junction to Idogo (27 miles); Aro to Abeokuta (1½ miles); Minna to Baro, on the Niger River (111 miles); Zaria to Kaura Namoda (137 miles); and Zaria to Jos (133 miles of 2 feet 6 inches gauge track). During 1950 a survey for an extension of the railway from N'guru to Maiduguri and perhaps further was begun. The plains of Bornu would be opened up by such an extension.

The railway operates road feeder services in the north, chiefly in Sokoto province. The equipment comprises 73 lorries and 26 trailers; 4 new 32-seater passenger buses have recently been put into operation on the Gusau-Sokoto road.

**Waterways**

The Rivers Niger and Benue are in themselves great natural water highways, and in the south, particularly in the Niger delta, there are numerous other navigable waterways, rivers and connecting creeks, which provide means of communication and transport. In parts of Southern Nigeria water transport is the only means of communication.

**Shipping**

Steamships maintain services between Nigeria and Europe, America, South Africa and the other West African colonies.

The two principal ports are Lagos and Port Harcourt. That of Lagos comprises Lagos Island and the mainland side of the harbour connected by the Carter Bridge. There is no rail connection to Lagos Island on which side of the harbour is a deep-water wharf and transit sheds for imports and numerous private jetties. On the mainland side of the harbour there is a modern deep-water
quay at Apapa with rail and road connections, transit sheds and electric level-luffing cranes; also a wharf at which bulk-oil ships discharge to tanks ashore. The Apapa quay is capable of very considerable extension as trade may require. There is a large dockyard at Apapa and vessels of tonnage up to 3,600 tons can be dry docked. A large contract for major port improvements at Apapa was let in 1950 and work on the extension of the wharf is under way.

Port Harcourt lies some 40 miles up the Bonny River and comprises a deep-water quay and transit sheds capable of further extension, with rail and road connections. Port Harcourt is the port of export for Nigerian coal which is shipped by belt conveyor or across the quay.

The two principal inland river ports are Burutu on the Niger, and Warri on the Warri River. Both are served from the ocean via Forcados and Excavos River. There is also a river port at Baro, some 280 miles up the Niger, and one at Makurdi on the Benue.

Other coastal ports are Calabar and Victoria.

Air

Nigeria is well served by 30 all-season airfields. Trunk route services are operated by BOAC KLM, SABENA, Air France and Swissair connecting South and West Africa with the capitals of Western Europe. There are also connecting services to the United States and South America.

Internal services are operated by the West African Airways Corporation, which operates services from—

Lagos–Ibadan–Kaduna–Zaria–Kano.
Lagos–Ibadan–Ilorin–Jos–Kano.
Kano–Potiskum–Maiduguri–Yola.
Kano–Katsina–Sokoto Gusau–Kaduna–Kano.
Lagos–Enugu–Pt. Harcourt–Benin City–Calabar.
Lagos–Enugu–Calabar–Tiko.
Lagos–Benin City–Pt. Harcourt–Tiko.
Lagos–Benin.
Lagos–Benin–Pt. Harcourt.
Lagos–Benin–Enugu–Mamfe.
Lagos–Ibadan–Benin–Lagos.
Lagos–Benin–Pt. Harcourt–Enugu–Makurdi–Jos–Kano.

There are Flight Information Centres at Kano and Lagos, and these disseminate aeronautical information for briefing purposes and broadcasts to aircraft. Rescue Co-ordination Centres are situated at both these airfields and are responsible for affording protection to the steadily increasing services within and across Nigeria. The number of aircraft movements at Nigerian airfields during the current year is estimated at over 20,000.

Radio navigational and approach aids are installed at several airfields, and increased and improved facilities are being installed.

Traffic through Kano is steadily increasing and in the future several new trunk routes are expected to use this airport.

Full meteorological facilities exist at Kano and Lagos airports and, in addition, there is a network of reporting stations. Information regarding existing weather conditions are broadcast from a number of aeronautical ground stations on request.

Posts and Telegraphs

Nigeria is a member of the Universal postal Union and contains 134 Post Offices and 441 postal agencies. Full information concerning postal and telegraphic facilities is given in the Nigeria Post Office Guide.

Mail steamers taking 13 days for the trip sail once every three weeks between the United Kingdom and Nigeria and an intermediate service is provided by less speedy cargo vessels. The air mail service to and from the United Kingdom operates via Kano and Tripoli on five days a week. The air postage rate for ordinary letter to the United Kingdom is 1s. per ½ oz. An air letter service to all countries in the Postal Union is in operation the charge being 6d. a letter. All main provincial centres are now linked by an Internal Air Mail service and all first-class mail is carried without surcharge at the rate of 1d. for each of first and second ½ ovs., thereafter 1d. per oz.

A system of inland telegraphs, owned and operated by Government, connects the majority of the principal towns throughout the country. This inland system includes wireless telegraphs and a rudimentary trunk telephone system, the latter in course of development. There are 67 telephone exchanges connected by trunk lines within the three main groups. There is also a wireless telegraph system, including direction-finders, owned and operated by Government for aviation services.

PUBLIC FINANCE AND TAXATION

Revenue and Expenditure

Comparative Statements of Nigerian Revenue and Expenditure are published monthly in the Nigeria Gazette. In 1938–39 Revenue amounted to some six million pounds and Expenditure to some seven million pounds. The cost of public services has increased considerably in recent years and this has been met by increases in rates of direct and indirect taxation. Revenue and Expenditure (excluding Colonial Development and Welfare grants and expenditure) reached the following figures:

| Year       | Revenue     | Expenditure |
|------------|-------------|-------------|
| 1947/48    | £17,442,691 | £16,032,038 |
| 1948/49    | £22,000,513 | £23,132,124 |
| 1949/50    | £24,472,040 | £23,169,320 |
| 1950/51    | £26,186,390 | £26,021,950 |

1947–49 : actual ; 1949–51 : estimates.

In 1948–49 Import, Export and Excise Duties provided 57 per cent. of the Revenue, and Direct Taxes 17 per cent. Both these items showed increases throughout the war years. Interest, largely contributed by the Railway in respect of Capital Works Expenditure financed from Nigerian Loan and General Funds, provided 4 per cent. of the Revenue, the balance being made up of such items as licences, Mining Royalties, Fees of Court or Office and Earnings of Government Departments.

Public Debt

All Nigerian Loans, other than the local loan, are quoted on the London Stock Exchange. Those outstanding at 31st December, 1949, are listed in the following table:

| Amount outstanding | Description of Stock |
|--------------------|----------------------|
| £4,188,000         | Nigeria 3% Inscribed Stock 1955 |
| £5,700,000         | " 4% " 1963 |
| £300,000           | " 3½% Registered " 1956-61 |
| £1,250,000         | " 2½% " 1966-71 |
| £1,410,285         | " 3½% Inscribed Stock 1975-77 |

At the end of 1949 the Nigeria 6% Loan 1949–79 of £6,363,226 reached maturity and it was decided
to redeem this loan at the earliest opportunity. This, together with the 1950-60 5% Loan of £4,263,373 were treated in a joint operation. The sum of £7,626,599 was redeemed and £3,000,000 were converted into a loan issued at par at 3% redeemable in 1975-77.

The annual charges for the service of the Public Debt on account of Interest and Statutory Sinking Funds in the year 1948-49 amounted to £1,190,829 roughly 7·5 per cent. of total ordinary expenditure.

Assets and Liabilities

The Balance Sheet of Nigeria as at 31st January, 1950, showed an excess of Assets over Liabilities of £8,981,284 and also a Revenue Equalisation Fund of £4,106,005 and a Supplementary Sinking Fund of £2,012,808.

Direct Taxation

Two forms of direct taxation are in force: viz. income tax and general tax. The Income Tax Ordinance provides for non-natives throughout Nigeria, and natives in the Township of Lagos, to pay a graduated income tax; and for all companies to pay a flat rate of 9s. in the £. The individuals' rates in force in 1950-51 were:

| Chargeable Income | Rate of Tax |
|-------------------|-------------|
| For every pound of the first £200 | 0 0 4½ |
| For every pound of the next £200 | 0 0 9 |
| For every pound of the next £200 | 0 1 1½ |
| For every pound of the next £200 | 0 1 6 |
| For every pound of the next £400 | 0 3 0 |
| For every pound of the next £800 | 0 4 6 |
| For every pound of the next £1,000 | 0 6 0 |
| For every pound of the next £1,000 | 0 7 6 |
| For every pound of the next £1,000 | 0 9 0 |
| For every pound of the next £5,000 | 0 11 3 |
| For every pound exceeding £10,000 | 0 15 0 |

There are special rates for incomes which do not exceed £150.

Early in 1948 an arrangement was concluded with H.M. Government for the avoidance of double taxation. The main result of this arrangement, which is in line with similar arrangements concluded by H.M. Government with the U.S.A., Canada, Australia and certain other Colonies, is that the profits of a British trading concern having a permanent establishment in Nigeria will bear the full rate of Nigerian Companies' Tax, the burden of relieving the resultant double taxation being borne by the U.K. The arrangement is retrospective to April, 1946.

The yield from income tax has increased progressively since its introduction in 1940, the apparent decline in 1946/47 being due to the fact that an exceptional amount of arrears was collected in 1945/46:

Revenue Derived from Income Tax:

| Individuals and Companies | £       |
|--------------------------|---------|
| 1940-41                  | 280,737 |
| 1941-42                  | 565,805 |
| 1942-43                  | 864,421 |
| 1943-44                  | 1,517,283 |
| 1944-45                  | 1,370,714 |
| 1945-46                  | 2,496,641 |
| 1946-47                  | 2,004,721 |
| 1947-48                  | 3,292,116 |
| 1948-49                  | 3,484,018 |
| 1949-50                  | 4,340,000 |
| 1950-51                  | 4,000,000 |
| 1940-49 : actual ; 1949-51 : estimates. |

Natives outside the township of Lagos pay a General Tax assessed in a variety of ways in conformity with local, political, social and economic conditions, and ranging from the individual assessment of wealthy traders in large towns to a flat rate in backward areas.

Customs Tariff (Summarised)

The First Schedule to the Customs Ordinance, 1942, enumerates articles on which import and export duties are imposed, together with articles that may be imported free of duty. Duties were raised early in 1948 and 1949, examples of rates in force at 31st March, 1949, being:

Wearing apparel (shirts, 16½ per cent. ad singlets, boots, shoes and socks).

Bicycles . . . . . . 15s. each.

Clocks and watches . . . 1s 3d. each or 20 per cent. ad valorem.

Motor cars . . . . . . 10s. per 28 lbs. net weight.

Motor lorries . . . . . . £6 5s. each.

Motor spirit . . . . . . 10d. the gallon.

Toilet preparations . . . 66½ per cent. ad valorem.

Provisions . . . . . . 20 per cent. ad valorem or specific rates.

Brandy, gin, rum and whisky. £3 18s. the gallon.

Other spirits . . . . . . £3 18s. the gallon or 66½ per cent. ad valorem.

Tobacco—unmanufactured. 5s. 6d. the pound.

Cigars . . . . . . £1 the hundred.

Cigarettes . . . . . . £3 10s. the thousand or £1 10s. the pound.

Exemptions from import duties include advertising matter, aircraft, goods imported by the British Overseas Corporation and similar corporations, and for the service of Government Departments and Native Administrations, mosquito nets and agricultural, mining, water-boring and industrial development machinery. Approximately 66 per cent. of Nigerian import duty is derived from tobacco, salt, spirits, piece goods and petroleum products.

Export Duties

At 30th September, 1950, the export duties in force were:

Bananas, fresh . . . . . . 3d. per count bunch.

Bananas, dry . . . . . . 2d. per 10 lbs.

Benniseed . . . . . . 6½ ad valorem.

Cattle hides . . . . . . £18 the ton.

Cocoa . . . . . . 6½ ad valorem.

Goat skins . . . . . . £50 the ton.

Groundnuts . . . . . . 6½ ad valorem.

Groundnut oil . . . . . . 6½ ad valorem.

Groundnut cake . . . . . . 6½ ad valorem.

Palm kernels . . . . . . 6½ ad valorem.

Palm kernel oil . . . . . . 6½ ad valorem.

Palm oil . . . . . . 6½ ad valorem.

Sheanuts . . . . . . £2 the ton.

Sheepskins . . . . . . £30 the ton.

Tin or tin ore . . . . . . 7s. 8d. the ton.
NIGERIA

Year. Revenue. Expenditure.

1940-41 £7,273,157 £7,254,325
1941-42 7,975,055 7,026,894
1942-43 9,034,154 8,998,795
1943-44 10,913,200 9,976,537
1944-45 11,444,757 10,132,599
1945-46 13,200,428 10,692,776
1946-47 14,832,438 14,051,688
1947-48 18,259,132 17,859,940
1948-49 23,811,381 23,898,427
1949-50 30,170,000 27,230,000
1940-47/49 actual. 1949-50 estimates.

Public Debt

(a) Total public debt as at 31st March, 1949, £22,064,599.

Year. Amount. Period of Redemption.

1919 £6,363,226 1949-1979 Trustee security.
1923 5,700,000 1963 Trustee security.
1930 4,263,373 1950-1960 Trustee security.
1935 4,188,000 1955 Trustee security.
1946 300,000 1956-1961 Trustee security.
1947 1,250,000 1966-1971 Trustee security.
Total 22,064,599

The above excludes £100,000, Colonial Development and Welfare Scheme Loan in respect of Scheme No. D.259.

(b) Total annual charges:

1947-1948

(i) Annual interest £989,578
(ii) Annual contribution to sinking fund £201,284

1,190,862

(c) Total value of sinking funds as at 30th November, 1948:

(i) Statutory Sinking Fund £6,141,060
(ii) Supplementary Sinking Fund £2,540,094
(iii) Revenue Equalisation Fund £2,282,495

10,963,649

The 1947-57 5 per cent. loan £4,250,000 was redeemed during the year ended 31st March, 1947, by the repayment of £3,000,000 in cash and by the issue of £1,250,000 2½ per cent. Conversion Loan stock at a discount of one per cent. This conversion loan was issued on 1st March, 1947, by the Crown Agents.

CURRENCY AND BANKING

The unit of currency is the pound, maintained at par with sterling by the West African Currency Board which issues and redeems currency in the four British West African colonies against deposits and withdrawals of sterling in London. The media of circulation consists of £1 and 10s. notes, and alloy and nickel-bronze coins of 2s., 1s., 6d. 1d. ½d. and ¼d. issued by the board.

Native currency in the form of cowries, and brass rods is still used in some parts, but importation is prohibited, and the abolition of such native currency is being gradually effected. In October, 1948, the scheme for redemption of "Manillas" (token money introduced by the Portuguese) commenced in the Calabar and Owerri areas. The scheme was completed by 31st March, 1949.

Banking facilities are afforded by the Bank of British West Africa Limited, Barclays Bank (Dominion, Colonial and Overseas), the National Bank of Nigeria Limited, and the Agbonmagbe Bank Limited. The Bank of British West Africa is established at Lagos, Abeokuta, Calabar, Enugu, Ibadan, Jos, Kaduna, Maiduguri Kano, Onitsha, Oshogbo, Port Harcourt, Sapele, Minna and Zaria, Barclays Bank (D.C. & O.) has branches at Lagos, Ibadan, Zaria, Port Harcourt, Jos, Burutu, Kano, Victoria and Ijebu-Ode. The National Bank of Nigeria Limited and the Agbonmagbe Bank Limited are incorporated in Nigeria. The former has offices at Lagos, Agege, Abeokuta, Ibadan and Kano and the latter has offices at Lagos, Zaria, and Shagamu. Other banks incorporated in Nigeria since 1946 are the Nigerian Farmers Commercial Bank, Ltd. (1947), and the African Continental Bank (1948) both established in Lagos with African capital.

PRODUCTION AND TRADE

Principal Products

Agriculture

Cocoa grown almost entirely as a cash crop, and palm kernels constitute valuable exports. In addition valuable surpluses of palm oil, groundnuts, benniseed, cotton, and bananas are exported, and some rubber. The production of foodstuffs for local consumption still remains, however, the most important part of Nigerian agriculture. The main food crops are yams, cassava, coco-yam, maize, rice, various species of legumes, fruit, especially oranges, bananas and plantains, palm oil, guinea corn, millet, beans and ground-nuts.

Forestry

In the year ending 31st March, 1950, sawn timber taken under permit amounted to 936,000 cubic feet. Logs taken under permit amounted to 11,969,320 cubic feet, while fuel taken under forestry control amounted to 9,186,734 cubic feet.

Veterinary

The principal veterinary products are hides and skins, meat, bacon, sausages, fresh pork, pickled pork and lard. The figures for food production during 1948-49 were as follows:

| Product | Weight | Value |
|---------|--------|-------|
| Bacon   | 60,894 | 5,835 13 s. 6 d. |
| Pork, fresh | 7,042 | 352 2 0 |
| Pickled pork | 4,205 | 142 10 0 |
| Sausages | 6,399 | 399 18 9 |
| Lard    | 2,639 | 197 18 6 |
| Cash sales offal | — | 166 10 11 |

Mining

The principal products of mining are tin, columbite, gold, silver, lead, zinc and coal.

Dairy Products

The Department of Commerce and Industries has undertaken the production of dairy products since the 1st of April, 1948, and estimated production for the year 1950-51 was as follows:

| Product | Quantity |
|---------|----------|
| Butter  | 315,000  |
| C.B.F.  | 100,000  |
| Cheese  | 100,000  |

Local Industries.—The traditional crafts of spinning and weaving and dyeing have been developed from textile training centres. Steps are now on foot for the establishment of small textile weaving mills; development of the local brick and tile and pottery industry awaits expert advice. The manufacture of local soap has increased whilst cigarettes, shirt-making and tailoring, book-binding, printing and publishing, building and furniture-making continue to be developed under African management.
The Nigerian Government continues to maintain the extensive workshops of Marine, Railway, Electricity Undertakings and P.W.D.

The cigarette factory and brewery as well as sawmills and plywood factories are operated by extra territorial trading companies. There are two small soap factories in Kano and Aba.

An African undertaking has begun the erection of a factory for ceramics to be produced on a large scale. The Department of Commerce and Industries continues with its industrial development. Palm oil mills are being expanded as well as dairies; groundnut oil mills in the Northern Provinces will shortly come into operation and the present rice mills will be expanded.

Investigations are proceeding with regard to the fruit and fruit-juice industry, and the production of cassava starch; practical experiments are now being undertaken in regard to the coir fibre industry. Experts are examining the possibility of using local fibre for the production of bags and the use of local cotton in a large spinning factory. Plans for a twin sack-making and cotton-spinning factory at Onitsha, to be run by the Colonial Development Corporation in conjunction with the Nigerian Marketing Board, are well-advanced.

The African population is showing increasing interest in industrial development, any delay to which is largely due to the difficulty of obtaining the necessary technical assistance.

**Exports and Imports**

| Year | U.K. | Total |
|------|------|-------|
| 1939 | £3,648,021 | £6,757,136 |
| 1940 | £4,328,731 | £7,457,818 |
| 1941 | £3,695,241 | £6,505,116 |
| 1942 | £4,923,297 | £10,489,502 |
| 1943 | £7,436,562 | £12,418,239 |
| 1944 | £7,958,142 | £15,747,755 |
| 1945 | £7,935,057 | £13,583,118 |
| 1946 | £12,701,929 | £20,510,066 |
| 1947 | £16,163,755 | £32,465,682 |
| 1948 | £21,362,112 | £41,212,191 |
| 1949 | £29,515,000 | £56,762,500 |

(Exports including re-exports)

| Year | U.K. | Total |
|------|------|-------|
| 1939 | £6,227,127 | £10,468,732 |
| 1940 | £9,289,546 | £11,603,687 |
| 1941 | £11,340,122 | £13,782,579 |
| 1942 | £12,116,020 | £14,523,814 |
| 1943 | £12,484,125 | £15,151,562 |
| 1944 | £13,986,035 | £17,189,289 |
| 1945 | £12,859,377 | £18,050,873 |
| 1946 | £18,369,045 | £24,514,195 |
| 1947 | £28,087,048 | £37,118,839† |
| 1948 | £29,271,000 | £37,111,900‡ |
| 1949 | £47,780,529 | £60,305,502 |

* Excluding Specie and Currency Notes.
† Excluding re-exports.

Fuller particulars of imports and exports will be found in the Annual Trade Reports.

**Governors and Administrators of Lagos**

| Year | Administrator |
|------|--------------|
| 1861 | H. S. Freeman (Governor) |
| 1864 | J. Hawley Glover, R.N. (Lt.-Governor) |
| 1866 | Admiral C. G. E. Patey Subject to the Governor-in-Chief at Sierra Leone. |
| 1870 | W. H. Simpson |
| 1871 | J. Hawley Glover, R.N. |
| 1872 | George Berkeley |

**Governors**

| Year | Governor |
|------|----------|
| 1874 | Capt. G. C. Strahan, R.A. Subject to the Governor, Gold Coast |
| 1874 | Capt. C. C. Lees (Lt.-Gov.) |
| 1880 | W. Brandford Griffith, C.M.G. (Lt.-Gov.) |
| 1887 | C. A. Moloney, C.M.G. (Governor). |

**High Commissioners**

**Protectorate of Southern Nigeria**

| Year | High Commissioner |
|------|------------------|
| 1900 | Sir Ralph Moor, K.C.M.G. |
| 1900 | Colonel H. L. Galloway, C.M.G., D.S.O., Admin. |
| 1901 | Sir Ralph Moor, K.C.M.G. |
| 1901 | L. Probyn, C.M.G., Admin. |
| 1902 | Sir Ralph Moor, K.C.M.G. |
| 1903 | L. Probyn, C.M.G., Admin. |
| 1904 | W. F. W. Fosbery, Admin. |
| 1904 | Walter Egerton, C.M.G. |
| 1905 | Sir Walter Egerton, K.C.M.G. |
| 1905 | J. J. Thorburn, Admin. |
| 1st May, 1906 | Sir Walter Egerton, K.C.M.G. (Governor of the Amalgamated Territories). |

**Governors**

**Protectorate of Northern Nigeria**

| Year | Governor |
|------|----------|
| 1907 | Sir E. P. C. Girouard. |
| 1909 | Sir H. Hesketh Bell, K.C.M.G. |
| 1912 | Sir F. D. Lugard, G.C.M.G., C.B., D.S.O. (Later Rt. Hon. Lord Lugard, P.C.) |

**Colony and Protectorate of Southern Nigeria**

(Governors and Administrators)

| Year | Governor |
|------|----------|
| 1907 | Sir Walter Egerton, K.C.M.G. |
| 1912 | Sir F. D. Lugard, G.C.M.G., C.B., D.S.O. (Later Rt. Hon. Lord Lugard, P.C.) |

**Colony and Protectorate of Nigeria**

| Year | Governor |
|------|----------|
| 1914 | Sir F. D. Lugard, G.C.M.G., C.B., D.S.O.‡ (Later Rt. Hon. Lord Lugard, P.C.) |
| 1919 | Sir Hugh Clifford, G.C.M.G., G.B.E. |
| 1926 | Sir Graeme Thomson, G.C.M.G., K.C.B. |
| 1931 | Sir Donald C. Cameron, G.C.M.G., K.B.E. |
| 1935 | Sir Bernard H. Bourdillon, G.C.M.G., K.B.E. |
| 1943 | Sir Arthur F. Richards, G.C.M.G. (created Baron Milverton of Lagos and Clifton in 1947). |
| 1948 | Sir John Stuart Macpherson, G.C.M.G. |

**Executive Council**

The Governor (President).

**Ex-Officio Members**

Chief Secretary to the Government.
Chief Commissioner, Eastern Provinces.
Chief Commissioner, Western Provinces.
Chief Commissioner, Northern Provinces.
Attorney-General.
Financial Secretary.
Director of Medical Services.
Director of Education.

‡ Had the personal title of Governor-General.
Appointed Members

E. A. Carr.
Alhaji Usuman Nagogo, C.B.E. (Emir of Katsina).
Dr. F. A. Ibiom, O.B.E.
G. I. Obaseki.
Sir Kofaworola Adekunle Abayomi, M.D., Ch.B.
Major-General C. B. Fairbanks, C.B.E.

LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL

Governor—President.

Official Members

Chief Secretary to the Government.
Chief Commissioner, Western Provinces.
Chief Commissioner, Northern Provinces.
Chief Commissioner, Eastern Provinces.
Attorney-General.
Financial Secretary.
Director of Medical Services.
Development Secretary.
Director of Education.
Director of Agriculture.
Director of Public Works.
Commissioner of Labour.
Commissioner of the Colony.

Three Nominated Official Members who shall be three Residents, one from each Region, appointed by the Governor for each meeting of Legislative Council.

Nominated Unofficial Members

(a) Appointed by the Northern House of Chiefs—
Yahaya, C.M.G., C.B.E., Emir of Gwandu.
Alhaji Usuman Nagogo, C.B.E., Emir of Katsina.
Alhaji Ibrahima, Attah of Igbirra.
Sulemanu, Emir of Abuja.

(b) Appointed by the Northern House of Assembly—
Mallam Bello Kano.
Mallam Abubakar Tafawa Balewa.
Mallam Iro Katsina.
Mallam Aliyu Makaman Bida.
Mallam Yahaya Ilorin.

(c) Appointed by the Governor from those Chiefs who are members of the Western House of Assembly—
Aderemi I, C.M.G., Oni of Ife.
Akenzua II, C.M.G., Oba of Benin.

(d) Appointed by the Western House of Assembly—
Akinpelu Obisesan, O.B.E.
T. A. Odutola, O.B.E.
Gaius I. Obaseki.
A. Soetan.

(e) Appointed by the Eastern House of Assembly—
C. D. Onyeama.
Buowari Brown, O.B.E.
A. Ikoku.
Sir Francis Akanu Ibiam, K.B.E. (hon.) M.B.
Ch.B.
Nyong Essien.

(f) Appointed by the Governor for the Colony after consultation with the Native Authorities in the Colony—
Rev. T. A. J. Ogunbiyi, O.B.E.

(g) Appointed by the Governor to represent interests which are not otherwise adequately represented—
P. J. Rogers (First—representing Commerce).
Major J. West, M.C., E.D. (Second—representing Mining).
N. B. Edwards (Third—representing Shipping).

Elected Members

(a) For Lagos—
Dr. I. Olorun-Nimbe.
Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe.
Adeleke Adedoyin.

(b) For Calabar—
E. E. E. Anwan.

FOREIGN CONSULAR OFFICERS

Belgium—N. B. Edwards (Hon. Consul).
Denmark—N. Rasmusson (Hon. Consul).
France—G. Tourot (Consul); J. Cassin (Consular Agent).
Greece—K. Z. Pappas (Hon. Vice-Consul).
Lebanon—Hassen Osseiran (Consul).
Liberia—N. B. Edwards (Acting) (Hon. Consul).
Netherlands—W. Verbeek (Hon. Consul).
Norway—E. J. McQuin (Acting) (Hon. Consul).
Spain—S. D. Appleyard (Hon. Vice-Consul (Lagos)).
Sweden—K. Rasmusson (Hon. Consul).
United States—W. Q. Stanton (Consul-General);
W. J. Drew, H. H. Williams (Vice-Consuls).

SHORT SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY

For a fuller list, see the Nigeria Handbook 11th Edition, 1936).

Travel

Travels and Discoveries. Clapperton and Denham (1826).
Travels in Central Africa. Barth (1857).
Travels in West Africa. Kingsley (1900).
A Tropical Dependency. Lady Lugard (1905)
Nigerian Days. Hastings (1925).
Nigerian Sketches. Haig (1931).
Juju and Justice in Nigeria. Hives.
History, Anthropology, etc.
History of the Yorubas. Johnson (1921).
Dual Mandate in Tropical Africa. Lord Lugard (1922).
The Northern Tribes of Nigeria. (2 Vol.)
Meek (1925)
The Peoples of Southern Nigeria (4 Vol.)
Talbot (1926).
Nigeria under British Rule. Geary (1927).
History of Nigeria. Burns (1929).
Muhammadan Emirates of Nigeria. Hogben (1930).
Tribal Studies in Northern Nigeria. Meek (1931).
Hausa-English Dictionary. Bargery (1934).
Short History of Nigeria. Niven (1937)
Native Administration in Nigeria. Pernam (1937).
Law and Authority in a Nigerian Tribe. Meek (1937).
An African Survey. Hailey (1938).
Nigeria, Outline of a Colony. Niven (1946).
Black Byzantium. S. F. Nadel, 1942.
Economics
British Enterprise in Nigeria. Cook (Philadelphia, 1943).
The Native Economies of Nigeria. Forde and Scott (1946).
Mining, Commerce and Finance in Nigeria. Bower and others, ed. Perham (1947).
Flora and Fauna
Flora of Tropical West Africa (4 vol.). Dalziel.
West African Agriculture. Faulkner and Mackie.
West African Big Game Records. Rowland Ward.
Animal Treasure. Sanderson.
Birds of Tropical West Africa (5 Vol.). Bannerman.
Common Birds of West Africa. Fairbairn.
## CIVIL ESTABLISHMENT

(* Denotes Acting Appointment.)

### SALARY GROUPS AND SCALES

#### Superscale Posts.

| Group | A1 | A2 | A3 | B | C | D1 | D2 | E | F | G | H | J | K | L | M | N | O | P |
|-------|----|----|----|---|---|----|----|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Basic Salary | £2,550 | £2,400 | £1,950 | £1,900 | £1,750 | £1,650 | £1,600 | £1,500 | £1,450 | £1,400 | £1,350 | £1,300 | £1,200 | £1,175 | £1,150 | £1,100 | £1,075 | £1,050 |
| Expatriation Pay | £600 | £600 | £600 | £600 | £500 | £450 | £450 | £450 | £450 | £400 | £400 | £400 | £350 | £350 | £350 | £350 | £350 | £300 |

### SALARY SCALES—SENIOR SERVICE

| Scale | A | B | C1 | 1A | 2 | 3 | M2 | M3 | N1 | 2 | 2A |
|-------|---|---|----|----|---|---|----|----|----|---|---|
| Basic Salary | £450 | £450 | £450 | £510 | £540 | £570 | £600 | £630 | £660 | £720 | £750 | £780 | £810 | £840 | £870 | £900 | £930 | £960 | £1,000 |
| Expatriation Pay | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 |
| Basic Salary | £450 | £450 | £450 | £510 | £530 | £550 | £570 | £590 | £610 | £660 | £690 | £720 | £750 | £780 | £810 | £840 | £870 | £900 | £930 | £960 | £1,000 |
| Expatriation Pay | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 |
| Basic Salary | £450 | £450 | £450 | £510 | £525 | £540 | £555 | £570 | £585 | £600 | £660 | £680 | £700 | £720 | £750 | £780 | £810 | £840 | £870 | £900 | £930 | £960 | £1,000 | £1,080 | £1,110 | £1,140 | £1,170 | £1,200 |
| Expatriation Pay | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 | £150 |
| Basic Salary | £660 | £680 | £700 | £720 | £750 | £780 | £810 | £840 | £870 | £900 | £930 | £960 | £1,000 | £1,080 | £1,110 | £1,140 | £1,170 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 |
| Expatriation Pay | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 |
| Basic Salary | £725 | £765 | £795 | £825 | £850 | £880 | £910 | £940 | £970 | £1,000 | £1,030 | £1,060 | £1,090 | £1,120 | £1,150 | £1,180 | £1,210 | £1,240 | £1,270 | £1,300 | £1,330 | £1,360 | £1,390 | £1,420 | £1,450 | £1,480 | £1,510 | £1,540 | £1,570 | £1,600 |
| Expatriation Pay | £250 | £250 | £250 | £250 | £250 | £250 | £250 | £250 | £250 | £250 | £250 | £250 | £250 | £250 | £250 | £250 | £250 | £250 | £250 | £250 | £250 | £250 | £250 | £250 | £250 | £250 | £250 | £250 | £250 | £250 | £250 | £250 |
| Basic Salary | £690 | £690 | £690 | £720 | £750 | £780 | £810 | £840 | £870 | £900 | £930 | £960 | £1,000 | £1,080 | £1,110 | £1,140 | £1,170 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 |
| Expatriation Pay | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 |
| Basic Salary | £690 | £690 | £690 | £720 | £750 | £780 | £810 | £840 | £870 | £900 | £930 | £960 | £1,000 | £1,080 | £1,110 | £1,140 | £1,170 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 | £1,200 |
| Expatriation Pay | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 | £200 |

† Promotion Bar.

‡ For 3 years for officers entering at this point.

1. The minimum salary in Scales A, B and C has temporarily been increased to £510.
2. Officers provided by Government with furnished quarters are charged rents, assessed in accordance with salary.
GOVERNOR'S OFFICE

Governor and Commander-in-Chief—Sir John Stuart Macpherson, G.C.M.G. £6,500 and £1,750 duty pay.

Private Secretary—J. C. Wilson, M.B.E. Scale A.

Aide-de-Camp—G. L. E. Lindow. Scale B.

ADMINISTRATION

Chief Secretary to the Government—Vacant. Group A.1.

Chief Commissioner, W.P.—Sir Chandos Hoskyns-Abrahall, C.M.G. Group A.3.

Chief Commissioner, N.P.—Sir E. W. Thompson, K.B.E., C.M.G., M.C. Group A.2.

Chief Commissioner, E.P.—Comdr. J. G. Pyke-Nott, C.M.G., R.N. Group A.3.

Financial Secretary—E. Himsworth. Group B.

Development Secretary—C. J. Pleass, C.M.G. Group C.

Administrative Secretary—H. F. Marshall, C.M.G. Group C.

Commissioners on Special Duties—F. E. V. Smith, C.M.G.; Sir S. Phillipson, C.M.G.; C. Raeburn, C.B.E. £2,500.

Civil Service Commissioner—T. V. Scrivenor. Group C.

Commissioner of the Colony—E. A. Carr, C.M.G. Group D.2.

Commissioner of the Cameroons—E. J. Gibbons, C.B.E. Group D.2.

Administrative Officers, Staff Grade Senior Residents—B. E. Sharwood-Smith, E.D.; L. H. Goble; C. R. Niven, M.C.; D. A. F. Shute; Comdr. S. E. Johnson, R.N.; T. Farley Smith, O.B.E., E.D.; P. V. Main; C. J. Mayne. Group E.

Deputy Financial Secretary—R. W. C. Baker-Beall, M.B.E. Group F.

Deputy Civil Service Commissioner—W. R. T. Milne. Group G.

Administrative Officers, Class I—P. M. Riley; J. S. Smith; M. V. Backhouse, M.B.E.; V. K. Johnson, O.B.E.; J. G. C. Allen; C. W. Rowling; L. T. Chubb; C. V. Williams; R. J. M. Curwen; H. Cooper; G. B. G. Chapman; H. L. M. Butcher; H. C. Gill; D. F. H. MacBride; R. H. Maddox; E. R. Chadwick, O.B.E.; R. L. V. Wilkes; A. J. Knott; C. K. Wreford; T. B. Bovell-Jones; R. A. Vosper; R. L. B. Maiden; H. J. S. Clark; I. F. W. Schofield, E.D.; T. M. Shankland; H. R. E. Browne, O.B.E.; I. H. Spottiswoode; C. W. Cole; F. Humphreys. Group H.

Administrative Officers, Class II—Capt. H. Mercer, M.C., D.F.C.; F. R. Kay, O.B.E.; H. F. P. Wetherell, M.B.E.; S. P. L. Beaumont; J. G. Mackenzie; W. R. Hatch; J. H. Beeley; K. P. Maddocks; R. H. Gretton; J. E. B. Hall; W. Fowler; Capt. G. D. C. Money, M.C.; N. E. Whiting; A. R. Bailey; A. T. Weatherhead; W. D. Spence; C. V. Pegge; A. G. R. Mooring; H. B. Cox; A. Y. Cann; R. F. A. Grey; A. K. Judd; S. H. V. White; Lt.-Col. A. R. A. de Garston; L. R. Delves-Broughton; C. H. S. R. Palmer; J. Brayne-Baker; N. C. A. Levy; R. K. Floyer; T. E. Letchworth; F/Lt. O. J. F. Jones-Lloyd; A. B. Westmacott; F. M. Woodhouse; R. B. Cardale; W. H. Paul; R. L. Findley; L. Bain; K. J. Bryant; B. W. Walter; F. A. Goodliffe; H. K. Robinson; R. B. B. Eustace; A. C. F. Armstrong; T. F. G. Hopkins; P. P. Grey; G. Wilson; I. G. Gunn; C. W. Michie, O.B.E.; A. A. Williams, O.B.E.; C. T. C. Ennals; E. H. M. Counsell; W. M. Milliken; E. E. Sabben-Clare; V. H. Moulton. Group K.

Administrative Officers, Classes III and IV—J. A. Hilton; G. R. Osborne; C. H. Croasdale; Capt. J. A. H. Maund; C. E. L. Anderson; N. A. P. G. MacKenzie; B. M. MacFarlane; W. L. Cox; C. U. G. Tristram, E.D.; I. R. P. Heslop; W. K. D. Macray, E.D.; J. E. Jull; W. F. H. Newington; J. M. Calder; W. J. R. Mellor, E.D.; H. N. Harcourt; H. N. G. Thompson; C. F. D. Atkinson; J. G. Lenox-Consyngham; C. I. Gavin; D. H. E. Vesey; J. L. Gordon; Lt.-Col. E. C. Alderton; R. de S. Stapledon; H. J. M. Harding; A. J. Phillips; O. P. Gunning; J. H. Ellis; M. H. Varvill; A. F. F. P. Newns; L. C. Giles, M.B.E.; C. A. Guise, M.B.E.; L. T. Stevenson; G. Lorimer; C. P. Thompson; J. K. Brownlees; H. P. Elliott; H. L. Noble; B. St. G. Thwaites; R. O. Mant; S. White; H. A. S. Johnston, D.F.C.; J. A. G. McCall; P. H. G. Scott; C. J. L. Reynolds; A. N. Cohen; D. A. Pott; J. O. Field; A. M. Muir; J. H. D. Stapleton; G. L. Stephenson; D. M. Elliott; F. D. Jakeway; M. M. R. Haig; T. F. Barker; H. P. W. Murray; D. W. Russell; B. G. Smith; L. L. K. Rickford; C. M. H. Harrison; D. B. Wright; Lt.-Col. P. H. G. Stallard, M.B.E.; M. B. Hall; J. A. Allison; J. S. Dudding; R. E. Brown; D. Smith; J. R. V. A. Bromage; J. E. A. Baker; F. Martin-Davies, M.B.E.; C. L. Walker; F. B. Hadow; J. Taylor; H. Wrench; W. H. Ramsey; G. de la P. Cassels; F. P. Cobb; J. D. Hamilton; N. F. Cooke; R. E. Greswell, M.B.E.; A. M. Gerrard; E. O. W. Hunt, D.S.O.; P. L. Trevorrow; W. M. Wood; R. A. Stevens; D. A. Murphy; L. S. Watt; B. Halstead; J. M. Cruddas; R. J. Purdy; J. F. Hayley; A. M. Macleod-Smith; R. M. Leslie; D. W. Arnott; E. A. Lewis; D. Inglis; W. S. Carter; B. E. B. Fagg; J. H. Bourne; H. S. Seafood; D. H. Griffiths; G. Horne; C. de N. Hill; A. H. Robin; M. N. H. Milne; M. C. Atkinson; E. C. Powell; J. M. Blair-Fish; A. Holden; S. J. Moore; B. A. Abbott; H. J. Pedraza; V. L. Cornish; E. Broadbent; H. G. Jelf; V. E. Collison; D. H. Lloyd-Morgan; B. Greatbatch; T. G. Lawrence; M. R. Rayner; P. A. Richardson; J. B. Bell, M.B.E.; G. W. Thom; J. D. L. Booth; C. E. Iles; N. C. McClintock; R. R. C. Holland; M. J. Bennion; J. B. O. Malcolm; A. J. W. Clarke; W. M. Bradley; J. N. Vaughan; P. L. Wood; Lt.-Col. J. W. Etty-Leal, M.B.E.; Major C. N. F. Odgers; Lt.-Col. A. W. Martin; F. D. C. Williams; G. F. D. Haslewood; B. Abbott, M.B.E.; N. Bonner Gash; J. Christian; W. I. Brinkworth, M.B.E.; H. A. G. Acton; N. C Perkins; W. S. King, M.B.E.; A. H. St. J. Wood; G. W. S. Dudley; E. J. V. Williams, M.C.; G. T. Roche; F. G. Rogers; Major W. S. Smith, M.C.; D. L. Roberts; N. Barwick; J. F. Ross, M.C.; H. J. S. Beazley, D.F.C.; Major J. F. Hindle; K. Y. M. Mackenzie, M.B.E.; C. J. Gunton; P. W. Kemmis, D.F.C.; F. Walker; P. R. Crews; S/Ldr. R. H. Shepherd, O.B.E.; C. J. Ollard; J. C. Wilson, M.B.E.; Major E. Walker, D.S.O.; S. C. Pollard; J. C. Britton; W. Simpson; I. D. Cameron; Capt. G. J. Davies; K. B. Scott, M.B.E.; E. G. S. Payne; J. O. Udjo; J. R. Boss, D.S.O.; M. Widup; R. N. Jacobsen; T. Oates, M.B.E.; P. T. Barton, M.B.E.; T. M. Duckham; R. W.
Ennis; Capt. A. Urquhart; D. I. G. Scanlan; M. J. Adams; Major R. H. Prince; Major P. G. McMullan, M.M.; A. Ósakwe; R. F. S. Fleming; F. D. K. Williams; Major J. A. Williams; P. McC. Boyce; E. G. Lewis, M.B.E.; P. S. Thirsk; P. M. Laws, M.C.; P. A. Grier; Major J. A. Clewley; W. J. Griffith; W. H. Warren; A. C. E. Long, B.C.S.; H. R. I. Sackville-West, M.C.; D. J. Muffett; St. E. D. Nelson; L. Roberts, M.C.; G. D. F. Hadoke; A. H. Whittfield; K. D. Warren; F. Davies; C. B. Dodwell, D.F.C.; M. J. Hollis; E. S. James, T.D.; P. F. Haycock; R. G. Adams; H. P. Dow; R. J. Elkerton; R. N. Barlow-Poole; V. M. Ashwell; W. B. Nicholas; J. P. P. Gibbs; W. St. P. M. Hancock; S. J. Henry; S. Ade Ojo, M.B.E.; J. J. Balmain; T. M. Alnsworth; P. M. Wand-Tetley, M.C.; C. E. B. B. Simpson; B. H. Brackenbury; H. E. Rylands; C. C. Brigstocke; G. L. Aitcheson; P. Parkin; R. Varvill, D.S.C.; C. W. I. Arnold; D. E. O. Johnson, M.B.E.; K. J. Hilton; J. R. Bird; P. A. Tomlinson; Capt. W. S. Howard; Major P. H. M. Vischer; R. Angeloni; T. N. Rosser, D.F.C.; G. K. Munro; S. O. Adebo; R. P. Watkin; J. C. H. Farmer; S. W. C. Holland; Major D. H. Wauton, M.C.; I. F. Nicolson; C. Law; J. H. Mackie, M.C.; R. Coatswith, M.C.; S/Ldr. R. A. Clarke, D.F.C.; P. S. G. Flint; W. N. Kay; D. E. Glason; P. F. Grant; P. H. Balmer; J. G. Davies; J. A. Bey; R. D. W. Strickland; F. D. McGrath; Major A. D. H. Paterson, M.B.E.; S/Ldr. J. A. Jones; T. H. Sandford; Capt. E. P. Lanning; D. A. T. Thain; E. M. Catto; R. L. Morley; D. de M. Robin, M.B.E.; Major I. A. G. Gillies; P. L. Allpress; D. J. Cowperthwaite; A. P. Smith; A. N. Skinner; A. G. Eyre; J. B. Craig; D. B. Partridge; D. F. Barton; A. Bower; J. R. Smith; N. A. Morrison; Major W. D. Wilson, M.C., D.S.O.; H. S. Hilton; D. C. Rounthwaite; K. D. H. Cattamach; D. R. Gibbs, D.S.O.; R. M. Peet; M. J. Campbell, M.C.; A. K. Wright, M.C.; A. A. Atta; R. F. A. Hunter, M.C.; M. H. Orde; I. R. Duncan; G. A. Lewis; Capt. J. E. King; T. R. Bond; A. Olajide; C. H. Richardson; A. G. F. Ditcham, D.S.C.; Lt. R. W. Phelps; Lt. S. McCallum; Major A. G. Saville; Capt. B. K. Cooper; Capt. G. F. Anson, M.C.; F. H. A. Bex; G. F. Harris; C. D. Tay; J. Milles; L. Kuyinu; Lt. D. N. Leich, R.N.V.R.; Major R. G. Hodgson; J. R. Jenk, M.B.E.; E. W. Pratt; A. G. J. Davies, D.S.C.; H. J. A. Cassidy; A. M. Moodie; A. C. Mackellar; P. J. Harris; J. W. Matthew; A. T. Clark; Capt. P. D. S. Colman; J. P. Smith; W. F. Farrant; R. C. Lowe; T. M. B. Sharp; J. W. Widdell; J. Murray; B. A. Manuwa; W. T. Warmann; D. G. Cudmore; Lt. I. C. Jackson; J. A. Reynolds; J. D. Logan; C. A. Brooke; A. F. Mead; R. W. Gunston; S. O. Wey; H. R. Stephens; M. A. Mann; P. Dyson; F/O R. W. Pemberton; A. J. Cordy; K. V. Arrowsmith; M. L. F. Chambers; P. J. Cator; D. O. Savill; R. S. Latham; J. I. Okudiafor; F. J. Barroll; J. S. O. Ogunnaike; H. M. Whittington; A. E. Eronimi; T. B. Fyffe; M. H. Williams; J. M. Onyechi; M. O. Maconachie; A. McClellan; R. F. Benoy; R. C. Smith; T. R. W. Longmore; S. W. Morgan; J. W. Leach; A. Y. Daniels; G. M. L. Blackburne-Kane; D. V. Mountain; K. J. Johnson; R. C. Loadsman; D. C. Beadle; P. J. D. Nesbitt-Hawes; C. D. N. Nicol; J. D. Greig; A. V. Hartley; N. J. C. Parmenter; J. F. Wilkinson; M. I. Bonfield; W. G. C. Ferris; K. A. Vorley; T. W. Ikpeme; P. Ratcliffe; J. C. A. Warman; G. C. Marsh, O.B.E.; G. M. Rushmore; G. E. A. Lardner; M. E. D'Astugues; J. O. Shobande; G. des Bordes; Mallam Ahmed Talib; P. E. E. Archibong; Capt. F. R. Sweet, M.B.E.; J. O. Ugbonma; I. R. Stanbrook; Major V. M. Walters, M.C.; R. W. H. Du Boulay; J. R. Joslin; R. F. P. Snelling; W. C. Kelly; R. D. Ormsby; K. C. Thom; J. Whalley; R. C. Overton; B. B. Phillips; G. R. Gardner; J. M. Gibb; J. A. Pollok-Morris; D. J. Curry; J. R. Northeast; H. F. Patterson; D. G. Fennell; D. W. H. Crutchfield; H. W. Lawrence; T. P. A. Healy; R. G. Anderson; R. R. Hammond; V. D. Hibbs; D. G. M. Carson; J. Hennessy; R. E. H. Fitzherbert; P. J. Wallace; D. J. Neville; R. G. Holgate; C. J. Hanson-Smith; M. C. A. Large; R. W. Simmonds; A. B. Ingledow; C. J. Burgess; K. C. Shaddock; K. McC. Hakl; M. C. Misick; J. T. Coombes; M. S. Faiz; P. D. Fletcher, M.B.E. Scale A.

Establishment Officers—P. O. Bamgbose; M. O. Ani; C. A. Oputa; I. O Iya-Nya; S. D. A. Ogungbuyi. Scale A.

Assistant Establishment Officers—D. M. Biggin; G. I. Iyamu; E. H. Harrison; E. J. Smith. Scale C.1, 2, 3.

Principal, Clerical Training College—M. C. Cory. Scale B.

ACCOUNTANT-GENERAL

Accountant-General—H. R. Hirst. Group G.

Deputy Accountant-General—E. C. G. Fuller. Group L.

Principal Accountants—Capt. A. B. Jones, E.D.; J. M. Pryde; N. Turner; H. S. Jervois; J. A. Robertson. Group P.

Senior Accountants and Accountants—K. H. Wilson-West; W. S. Struth; J. E. Briscoe; J. Bridgett; D. R. Jones; J. H. Dixon; H. Wardle; J. C. Wells; T. M. Hartill; R. E. Marsh; W. J. Kellas; G. T. Hole; J. Burch; S. N. Obi; H. O. Phillips; A. Orimalade; K. R. Brinton; J. A. Grillo; A. O. Lipede; F. E. Johnson; P. H. Broksbank; H. D. Harger; D. N. Welch; D. Bridge; A. H. Zollner; F. O. Fisher; J. D. Jonah; R. C. Gibson; W. R. Nesbitt; R. Knowles. Scale B.

ADMINISTRATOR-GENERAL

Administrator-General—E. G. Fitt. Group M.

Assistant Administrator-General—H. H. Marshall. Scale A.

AGRICULTURE

Director of Agriculture—A. G. Beattie. Group C.

Deputy Director of Agriculture (Headquarters)—J. D. Brown. Group G.

Regional Deputy Directors of Agriculture—J. W. Wallace; M. Park; R. Johns, O.B.E. Group H.

Assistant Directors—D. H. Brown; A. V. Gibberd, M.B.E.; M. Greenwood, O.B.E. Group K.

Principal Agricultural Officers—A. F. W. Sheffield; M. W. Gibbon. Group N.
Principals of Schools—D. H. Welch; T. A. Phillips. Group N.

Senior Agricultural Officers and Agricultural Officers—E. T. Holmes; E. W. Momber; J. F. Ward; V. F. O. Oliver; J. M. S. Usher-Wilson; J. D. Tallantire; R. F. A. L. Reed; C. H. F. Walker; W. F. Gwilliam; E. J. Butler; T. N. Greeves; F. J. Harper; P. A. Gething; J. W. D. Goodban; V. E. Gale; A. H. S. Vigo, M.B.E.; T. E. Ryall; H. J. Taylor; R. B. Warner; L. D. G. Cromwell; F. G. Bridges; W. J. C. Little; J. S. Campbell; G. C. Gamey; A. G. Cullum; A. N. C. Thomas; D. J. O. Bourke. Scale A.

Agricultural Superintendents—P. Mulholland; R. Miller; J. O. I. Longe; R. F. S. Hainsworth; J. A. Carter; J. A. Makinde; T. S. E. Aribisala; D. R. E. Jackson; T. Geddie; J. N. W. Nicolls; M. Lawan; S. Z. Moczarski; B. U. A. Attah; L. Lotringer. Scale B.

Chemists—H. Vine; H. Irving. Scale A.

Entomologist—J. T. Davey. Scale A.

Senior Botanists and Botanists—W. E. Freeman; T. A. Russell; J. M. Waterston; J. H. Gisborne; A. C. Trueblood; D. H. Maggs; A. R. Maurer. Scale A.

Agricultural Engineers—G. Browne, O.B.E.; W. Matheson; R. McC. Davis. Scale A.

Irrigation Engineer—A. A. Smyth. Scale A.

Specialist Officers—J. Kitching; C. A. Thorold; J. L. Gregory. Scale A.

Senior Accountants and Accountants—S. A. Oloko. Scale B.

Oil Palm Research Station, Officer-in-Charge—F. W. Toovey. Group K.

Cocoa Survey, Officer-in-Charge—J. R. G. Hadland. Scale A.

Cocoa Survey Officers—H. T. C. Chipp; J. E. Clayphon; C. A. Parkinson; J. A. Ayorinde. Scale B.

AUDIT

Director of Audit—J. K. Buchanan. Group G.

Deputy Director—J. E. Barker. Group L.

Principal Auditors—C. J. Guthrie; R. Fisher; R. N. Seeman; A. H. Armitage; C. A. G. Coleridge. Group P.

Senior Auditors, Auditors and Assistant Auditors—R. W. A. McColl; D. E. Barnett; J. V. Gatchfield; J. Lee; D. T. Clark; N. Catterall; A. Ogedgebe; G. C. Anyagbunam; T. A. Williams; E. B. Ghansah; O. I. Atsiangbe; G. T. Hambly; I. H. Blenkinsop; I. D. Spicer; R. A. Nash; M. Glegg; J. H. Puckle; L. H. Hayward; N. F. Barron-Sullivan; R. F. Wilby. Scale B.

AVIATION

Director of Civil Aviation—W/Cdr. E. H. Coleman, A.F.C. Group E.

Operations Officer, Grade II—S. W. F. Palmer, D.F.C.; S/Ldr. H. C. Brilliant. Scale B.

Air Traffic Control Officer, Grade I—W. B. A. J. Keppel. Scale B.

Air Traffic Control Officers, Grade II—P. J. H. Harrington; R. R. B. Simpson; T. Miles; C. K. Cole, D.F.C.; G. D. Read; J. M. V. Byrne; E. C. Wood, M.B.E. Scale B.

Aerodrome Fire Superintendent—A. R. Gooch. Scale C.1, 2, 3.

CHEMISTRY

Government Chemist—J. A. R. Stoyle. Group K.

Assistant Government Chemists—K. S. Feltham; T. H. Jones; J. M. Hay. Scale A.

COLLIERY

Colliery Manager—R. Bracegirdle. Group H.

Deputy Colliery Manager—B. S. Passmore. Group M.

Colliery Surveyor—J. A. Scott. Scale A.

Progress and Planning Engineer—F. J. Hooley. Scale A.

Chief Accountant—A. W. Dickes. Group N.

Senior Accountants and Accountants—F. J. Crossley; F. A. Erinose; T. B. Musgrove. Scale B.

Storekeeper—G. A. Roche. Scale C.2, 3.

Chief Underground Manager—J. M. Moran. Group O.

Underground Managers—T. E. Cox; I. Howells; F. Buckley. Scale A.

Colliery Overmen—J. Day; T. Yates; J. W. Goodwin; J. McMonagle; R. J. Hughes; I. T. J. George; A. Alcock; J. L. Prince; A. Moffat; A. E. Nkpa; A. D. Y. Maduka; M. Okpoko; L. G. Lambert. Scale C.1, 2, 3.

Colliery Engineers and Assistant Colliery Engineer—C. A. Rawson. Scale A.

Colliery Electrical Engineer and Assistant Electrical Engineer—J. W. Woodward. Scale A.

Personnel Manager—R. W. H. Saint. Group O.

Assistant Personnel Manager—E. J. Scabikib. Scale B.

Lecturer in Coal-Mining—T. Mason. Scale C.1, 2, 3.

COMMERCE AND INDUSTRIES

Director of Commerce and Industries—H. B. Cox. Group E. (Seconded from Administration.)

Deputy Director of Commerce and Industries—J. E. B. Hall (seconded from Administration). Group H.

Assistant Director of Commerce and Industries—Vacant. Group M.

Administrative Assistant Grade I—Vacant. Scale B.

Principal Commercial Officer—R. A. Berriff. Group P.

Senior Commercial Officers and Commercial Officers—T. F. Bolter, D.F.C.; A. B. Farlow; J. M. Packett; H. B. Ridley; J. Mercer; P. L. Bailey; G. N. Smith; W. G. Forrest. Scale B.

Principal Accountant—H. Boothroyd. Group P.

Senior Accountant and Accountants—A. W. Rufai-Apara; W. Bain; R. L. Howard. Scale B.

Industrial Executive—G. W. Taylor. Group J

Principal Farm Industries Officer—W. T. Dalgarno. Group P.

Farm Industries Officer—E. G. Young.

Senior Industrial Officers and Industrial Officers—F. C. Mackenzie; J. U. Webb. Scale B.

Mechanical Mill Engineer—J. R. Brocklebank.

Mill Managers—R. B. Lightbody; A. Hollinghurst; J. G. Gilbert. Scale B.

Mill Engineers—E. C. Brownfoot; R. C. Taylor. Scale C.3.

Dairy Products Officer—N. Tasker. Scale B.

Fisheries Development Officer—O. E. Symes. Group P.

Fisheries Officers—P. I. R. Maclaren; G. H. Lunam. Scale A.

Chief Textile Officer—A. E. Southern. Scale A.
CO-OPERATIVE

Registrar of Co-operative Societies—R. H. Gretton. Group H.

Deputy Registrars of Co-operative Societies—J. E. Jull; L. T. Stevenson. Group M.

Senior Assistant Registrars and Assistant Registrars of Co-operative Societies—C. F. D. Atkinson; E. I. Price; R. M. Leslie; R. K. Adams; J. R. Austin; D. Barnie; M. O. K. Onwuli; O. Bateye; J. Milles; P. C. Bond; R. L. Sturge; H. S. Brown; R. S. Martins; J. S. Pollock. Scale A.

CUSTOMS AND EXCISE

Comptroller of Customs and Excise—W. T. Martin, E.D. Group G.

Deputy Comptroller of Customs and Excise—F. Bishop. Group L.

Assistant Comptroller of Customs and Excise—R. P. M. T. Barrett, E.D. Group N.

Chief Inspector of Customs and Excise—A. G. N. Jones. Group P.

Principal Collectors of Customs and Excise—G. J. Bonavia; C. E. Leembruggen; E. P. C. Langdon. Group P.

Inspectors and Instructors of Customs and Excise—H. J. Miners. Scale B.

Senior Collectors and Collectors of Customs and Excise—A. J. V. de Boissiere; Cdr. F. D. L. Stapcoole, R.D., R.N.R.; R. P. F. C. Blennerhassett; G. C. G. F. Rose; J. H. Bedford, M.B.E.; R. A. Fluellen; A. E. White; D. A. Cole; T. A. Pine-Coffin; R. G. Acton; D. B. Stuart; R. A. Bazuaye; J. W. Green; I. K. Rhodes; E. A. Akinyianju; A. D. M. Wilson; M. A. Equagoo; W. Gibbs; J. Stewart; A. Diyan. Scale B.

Administrative Assistant, Grade II.—D. B. Knapp. Scale B (personal).

EDUCATION

Director of Education—R. A. McL. Davidson, C.M.G. Group C.

Deputy Director (Headquarters)—R. J. Mason, O.B.E. Group G.

Deputy Directors (Regional)—C. T. Quinn-Young; H. R. Phillips; W. T. Mackell, O.B.E. Group H.

Assistant Director (Supernumerary)—R. M. East, O.B.E. Group 4.

Chief Inspectors—H. R. Phillips; W. E. Holt, O.B.E. Group K.

Chief Inspectors—W. T. Mackell, O.B.E.; H. R. Phillips; W. E. Holt, O.B.E. Group K.

Chief Woman Education Officers—Miss U. M. Orme; C. L. H. Geary. Group K.

Lecturer in Arabic Studies—C. E. J. Whitting. Group K (personal).

Colony Education Officer—J. G. Speer. Group O.

Principals, Boys' Secondary Schools—W. Simpson; A. W. A. Spicer; H. H. Jeffers; J. W. A. Thorburn; J. R. Bunting. Group O.

Principal, Girls' Secondary Schools—Miss E. Hobson. Group O.

Senior Rural Education Officer—G. N. Herington, O.B.E. Group O.

Principal, Teacher Training Centre—J. E. H. White. Group P.

Principal, Nigerian College of Arts, Science and Technology—W. H. Thorp. £1,500.

Senior Education Officers and Education Officers—A. A. Shillingford; F. K. Butler, E.D.; J. D. Clarke; A. Hunt Cooke; L. J. Lister; A. H. Parnaby; A. H. Smith; E. E. Thomas; E. A. Cadle; W. S. de G. Rankin; W. B. Benton-Evans; R. F. Hogarth; M. G. Wood; F. D. Hibbert, E.D.; H. W. Church; A. J. Carpenter, M.B.E.; F. Smithies; C. Graham; A. D. Porter; C. Bell; Miss E. Hyde; O. Waterfield; H. G. Butler; E. Arthur; R. H. Wright; W. H. P. Browne; Miss K. A. Dobbs; H. J. Savory; A. B. Cozens; W. C. Low; J. F. M. Heaney; A. J. Spicer; Miss A. I. G. Spence; J. J. Williams; Miss L. V. Hodgson; Miss G. M. Herra; A. J. E. Soulsby; Miss J. M. Petersen; Mrs. A. Adesigbin; A. G. Keay; G. H. Campbell; J. W. Court; N. C. Kay; T. N. Redford; J. E. Freeman; E. W. Allen; R. M. Elphick; C. Carter; D. J. Mills; S. U. Etuk; T. O. Ejiwunmi; G. P. Savage; A. K. Wareham; J. C. H. Ball; C. A. Ekere; H. M. B. Somade; I. O. Dina; J. S. Ogunlesi; S. O. Biobaku; Miss K. A. Player; Miss F. M. Taeger; Miss M. Hutcheson; W. N. Okezie; T. M. Hagan; Miss J. E. Moxon; A. P. Waters; A. Long; T. J. Drabble; C. O. Taiwo; W. A. M. Willans; P. J. Haywood; D. R. G. Gwynne-Jones; R. E. Crookall; G. Kidd; E. W. Lloyd; R. M. Batten; R. H. Stone; J. H. B. Maggs; M. F. Bestmann; E. L. Russell; Miss E. M. Richmond; Miss D. Fasan; Miss B. Beeston; Miss H. M. Burness; Mrs. C. O. Wilson; J. M. M. Osismosu; R. F. Harwood; W. E. Alagoa; H. W. Ridley; Miss K. M. Kinton; P. N. C. Molokwu; P. Dickinson; I. P. Smith; A. A. Smith; J. O. A. Herrington; T. Adam; J. W. V. Chamberlain; A. M. Gregory; G. M. Amey; P. J. Toogood; M. C. English; B. J. R. Parker; Mallam Nuhu Zaria; S. E. A. Sangowawa; W. A. Illsley; I. Mboto; Miss I. Chambers; Miss W. M. Turley; Miss P. J. Godly; R. L. S. Tong; N. R. Lanham; Miss E. S. J. Herivel; S. V. Bayker; R. J. C. Murton; E. S. J. Moses; C. J. O'Neill; S. R. Sentance; D. G. Brayshaw; W. C. E. Mills; L. Levi. Scale A.

Lecturers—W. A. Perkins; T. B. Child; A. G. Taylor; J. Wright. Scale A.

Surveyor of Antiquities and Assistant Surveyor of Antiquities—K. C. Murray; B. E. B. Fagg. Scale A.

Rural Education Officers—J. M. Arthurs; G. F. Thisleton; J. H. C. Hicks; P. Walshe. Scale A.

Adult Education Officers—W. F. Jeffries. Scale A.

Organiser, Domestic Science—Miss E. M. Robinson. Scale A.

Registrar of Examinations—Miss I. M. Judd. Scale A.

Senior Accountants and Accountants—B. J. E. Morphey; C. A. Ramshaw. Scale B.

Principal, Government Clerical School—Lt.-Col. R. J. Smith, M.B.E. Scale A.

Deputy Director of Education (Technical)—J. Harris. Group H.

Chief Inspector of Education (Technical)—D. A. Russell. Group K.

Principal, Technical Institute—R. S. Anderton. Group M.

Principals, Trade Centres—T. Nuttall; Lt.-Col. L. A. Holloway; G. N. Bott; Lt.-Col. G. A. Henderson, M.B.E. Group O.

Senior Education Officers and Education Officers—N. C. James; Mrs. J. I. Scobie; Capt. C. V. Trenchard-Murphy; W. A. McD. Paterson; J. R. Scobie; Major A. F. Baker; J. A. F. Russell. Scale A.

Welfare Officer—C. C. Willis. Scale C.1, 2, 3.
Development of General Education

Principal, Boys’ Secondary School—V. B. V. Powell. Group O.

Principal, Women’s Training Centre—Mrs. E. D. Mather. £860.

Lecturers—C. J. Potter. Scale A.

Education Officers—Miss H. Barry; Miss K. Chivers; Miss M. Hastings; Mrs. C. M. McDevitt; Miss M. G. Utting; Miss C. F. Jackson; Miss K. M. Matthews; Miss B. A. Scott. Scale A.

ELECTRICITY

Electrical Engineer-in-Chief—J. L. King. Group G.

Deputy Electrical Engineer-in-Chief—H. Batty. Group K.

Senior Electrical Engineers—A. R. Rae; D. A. Buss; C. E. Procter. Group N.

Electrical Engineers, Grade I—P. M. Beare; A. E. Bailey; J. G. Richardson. Scale A.

Electrical Engineers, Grades II, III, IV—C. A. Millard; H. H. Pernice; F. W. Cuer; J. C. Chopping; G. T. Turner; O. O. Coker; M. Kalle; E. J. Matheson; N. Shepherd; D. R. Schelby; E. H. Yonren; J. J. Galloway; A. J. Whitaker; L. J. Clare; G. R. P. Willan; E. L. Quartey. Scale A. (Upper segment.)

Mechanical Engineers, Grades I and II—M. J. Walshe; W. G. Conkie; R. S. Nelson; A. C. M. Chapman; C. W. Motts; V. M. Raine; D. C. Wisbey; H. M. Whipp; N. McWilliam; A. I. H. Scott; C. A. G. Turner. Scale A.

Charge Shift Engineers—W. J. Moxon; L. T. Simpson; A. D. Blue; J. S. Dingle; D. Muir; J. Brown; T. B. Hogg; J. B. Fairley; J. M. Urquhart; R. L. Clother; A. F. Glen; H. N. T. Hulford; T. Edge; F. E. O’Flaherty; B. W. Abbott; W. J. Thomson; J. W. Cocker; J. I. Harvey. Scale C.1, 2, 3.

Chief Accountant—A. Faul. Group P.

Senior Accountants and Accountants—D. P. Hickey; G. S. Carver; R. H. Parsons. Scale B.

FORESTRY

Chief Conservator of Forests—F. S. Collier, C.B.E. Group E.

Deputy Chief Conservator of Forests—D. R. Rosevear. Group J.

Assistant Chief Conservators of Forests—N. S. Stevenson, O.B.E.; J. C. Mallam; J. R. Lockie. Group K.

Conservators of Forests—S. H. Wimbush; J. E. Taylor; J. Smith; D. McIntosh; P. C. Lancaster; M. Robson; K. R. MacDonald. Group O.

Senior Assistant Conservators and Assistant Conservators of Forests—J. Dundas; J. H. Mackay; P. A. Allison; P. C. Randell; A. K. F. Nicol; T. F. Betts; J. C. K. McElderry; L. C. M. Wedderburn; M. E. Dommen; H. B. Burgess, M.C.; T. I. Rees; T. W. Hussey; A. N. Pringle; R. W. J. Keay; J. R. G. Watters; R. J. Dewar; J. G. McQuillen; R. T. Gray; L. G. Cooper; D. I. Shirlaw; W. E. S. Mutch; A. F. Trappes-Lomax; P. J. S. Phillips; J. A. D. Jackson; M. Sanders; J. W. F. Chapman; D. S. Ellis; C. A. Walker; P. A. Daley; H. A. Fooks; J. Evans; J. E. M. Horne; A. L. Roxburgh; E. I. O. Akpata; E. M. O. Chukwuogo; A. G. Bramwell; A. J. L. Mitchell; J. L. Masson; M. S. Foulstone; C. A. M. Nash; J. D. Long; W. J. Harrison; J. S. Lightbody. Scale A.

Forest Engineers—J. D. Scott; A. J. J. Invalid. Scale A.

Accountants—O. F. Marran; J. I. L. Hill; E. W. Pratt. Scale B.

GEOLOGICAL SURVEY

Director—R. R. E. Jacobson. Group H.

Deputy Director—Vacant. Group M.

Assistant Director—A. Cawley. Group Q.

Senior Geologists and Geologists—R. B. McConnell; H. P. T. Hyde; J. W. du Preez; E. H. Jaques; A. M. J. de Swradt; J. E. Rockingham; A. Simpson; J. R. T. Hazell; D. Jardine; W. N. MacLeod; G. C. McCallum; O. P. Casey; J. H. Thompson; D. G. Jones; A. J. L. Tidy. Scale A.

Mineralogist—R. O. Roberts. Scale A.

INLAND REVENUE

Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax—F. G. Lloyd. Group K.

Senior Assistant and Assistant Commissioners of Income Tax—F. G. Selby; S. Wilson; T. S. C. McIlwain; D. S. Freir. Group P.

Senior Assessment and Assessment Officers—O. A. Omololu, M.B.E.; G. Wilson; R. R. Olisa; I. I. Owoaje; E. Awo. Odufuwa; S. G. Stragalis; W. J. Lewis; H. E. Wall; W. S. Girsham; R. J. G. Thomas. Scale B.

JUDICIAL

Chief Justice—Sir John Verity, Kt. £3,000.

Senior Puisne Judge—J. H. M. de Comarmond. £2,150.

Second Puisne Judge—C. G. Ames. £1,950.

Puisne Judges—O. Jibowu; A. G. B. Manson; H. M. S. Brown; S. B. Rhodes, C.B.E.; W. Wells-Palmer; G. G. Robinson; F. W. Johnston; E. Hallinan; J. R. Gregg; P. C. Hubbard; C. W. Reece; V. R. Bairamian; A. A. Ademola. £1,950.

Chief Registrar—W. H. Hurley. Group L.

Magistrates, Grade I—C. N. S. Pollard; F. S. Protheroe; A. Desalu; H. W. N. Bouel; J. D. Symes; F. O. Lucas; G. F. Dove-Edwin; A. S. Evelyn-Brown; P. W. Holm; A. Williams; A. O. Abayomi; S. P. J. Q. Thomas; W. H. Hurley; J. A. Smith; R. W. McD. Crockett; N. V. Reed, M.B.E.; C. J. Hammett; J. A. A. Kester; N. H. New; A. A. Adesigbin; R. A. Nedd; K. S. Stoby; J. Bennett; W. A. H. Duffus. Scale A.

Senior Registrar—M. E. Ojomo. Scale B.

LABOUR

Commissioner of Labour—A. H. Couzens. Group E.

Deputy Commissioner of Labour—P. H. Cook. Group K.

Senior Labour Officers—G. D. Proctor; J. B. Smith. Group O.

Labour Officers—E. R. Birch; F. G. Downing; Major W. G. Stevenson; R. F. S. Lewis; H. J. Cheesley; Major J. B. O. Malcolm; Lt-Col. E. W. Rumsey; F. C. Nwokedi; T. E. Asalubi; M. A. Tokunbon; A. I. Obiyani; Major C. Spencer-Cooke; Major N. V. Hayne; F. P. Whitehouse; A. H. Fish; Major C. W. Bunker; W. M. Bradley; W. I. Brinkworth, M.B.E.; Miss L. B. Maslin. Scale A.

Labour Officers (Trade Unions)—R Curry; G. B. Lynch. Scale A.
LAND

Commissioner of Lands—C. W. Rowling. Group E.

Assistant Commissioner of Lands—H. B. Hewett. Group H.

Regional Assistant Commissioners of Lands—C. H. S. R. Palmer; F. M. Woodhouse. Group H.

Senior Land and Land Officers—E. A. Tavener, M.C.; J. K. Brownlee; C. S. Clover; E. C. Atterbury. Scale A.

Legal Assistant—Vacant. Scale A.

Deputy Registrar of Titles—J. J. Hunter, M.M. Scale A.

Town Planning Officer—C. L. Waide. Scale A.

Assistant Registrar of Titles—A. J. Grace. Scale B.

Assistant Registrars—L. F. B. Pedro; O. J. C. Osadebe. Scale B.

LEGAL

Attorney-General—Sir Gerard Howe, K.C. Group B.

Solicitor-General—Arthur Ridehalgh, K.C. Group F.

Senior Crown Counsel—R. A. Doherty; J. S. Manyo-Plange, O.B.E. Group L.

Crown Counsel—N. G. Hay; L. Brett; R. D. Lloyd; G. G. Briggs; D. L. Bate; D. S. Stephens; C. B. O'Beirne; E. N. Egbuna; G. K. I. Amachree; C. O. Madarikan; M. G. de Winton, M.C. Scale A.

MARINE

Director of Marine—Lt.-Comdr. A. Skinner. Group E.

Deputy Director of Marine—Vacant. Group K.

Assistant Directors of Marine—Lt.-Comdr. L. Campton; Comdr. L. E. Foster, R.D., R.N.R.; Group M.

Principal Marine Officers—Lt.-Comdr. D. L. Jones; Lieut. M. Price; Lieut. K. H. Goodman, M.B.E. Group O.

Senior Marine Officers and Marine Officers—Lt.-Comdr. L. F. Blower; Lt.-Comdr. V. W. Martin; Lt.-Comdr. J. F. A. Bray; Lt.-Comdr. J. W. Cooper, D.S.C. and Bar, R.N.R. (Rtd.); Lieut. C. Atkinson; Lieut. K. H. Davies; L. Collings; Lieut. J. Thornton; Lieut. T. S. Henderson; Lieut. G. Jones; Lieut. J. C. Davidson; Lieut. D. T. S. Sinclair; Lieut. W. J. Knight; Lieut. A. Macleod; Lt.-Comdr. G. E. R. Rawsthorne, R.D., R.N.R.; J. W. Goulding; G. N. Wood; J. L. Laity; W. R. H. Hudmore; Lt.-Comdr. J. T. Slee, M.B.E., R.N.R.; G. C. Dawson; Lieut. H. A. McGhee; J. H. Hatfield; Lieut. A. Simpson; Lieut. F. H. Layte, R.N.R.; Lieut. H. Shaw, R.N.R.; Lieut. C. C. Gardner, R.D., R.N.R.; Lieut. P. Titley, R.N.R.; Lt.-Comdr. A. J. Falwasser, R.D., R.N.R.; P. W. Lillie; R. A. Hargreaves; K. W. Seadon; Lieut. J. G. Wilson, D.S.C., R.N.R.; Lieut. W. B. Inches, R.I.N.; G. A. Brice; S. A. Arroyo; B. I. Nkondouono; L. A. Olayinka; G. O. Oniwinde. Scale A.

Superintendent Engineer—Lt.-Comdr. (E) E. H. Jones. Group M.

Principal Engineer—Lt.-Comdr. (E) J. Begbie. Group O.

Senior Engineer and Engineer Officers—Lieut. (E) J. O. Duffy; Lt.-Comdr. (E) F. E. Monk, R.I.N.R.; Lieut. (E) F. C. Hill; Lieut. J. G. Taylor; Lieut. G. A. Lomax; Lieut. F. R. Muir; G. Hine; Lieut. A. Murray; J. H. C. Caird; J. J. Ridley; J. W. Morris; Lieut. J. B. Russell; A. S. D. Walker; E. A. Aileru; N. A. Pearse; G. O. Jones. Scale A.

Senior Executive Engineer (Port)—K. Sadler. Group O.

Electrical Engineer—Vacant. Scale A.

Technical Instructor—Vacant. Scale A. (Upper Segment.)

Labour Relations Officer—W. P. Murray. Scale A.

Naval Architect—L. MacDonald. Group O.

Chief Accountant—F. Davidson. Group P.

Senior Accountant and Accountants—J. J. Hollist; O. E. Awani; J. A. Lawal; C. W. Shyllon; W. J. Emmerson. Scale B.

Recorder—B. O. Woodward. Scale B. (Upper Segment.)

Senior Storekeeper—G. I. Thain. Scale C.3.

MARKETING AND EXPORTS

Director—A. H. Young. Group E.

Deputy Director—R. A. Crofts. Group H.

Assistant Director (Marketing)—J. Young. Group K.

Assistant Director (Shipping)—H. A. Maxted. Group N.

Assistant Director (Accounts)—R. S. Nicklin. Group N.

Marketing Officers—T. G. Gow-Smith; N. A. Martins; J. C. Miller; A. I. P. MacFarlan; S. G. Ikoku. Scale B.

Senior Accountant and Accountants—W. J. Halifax; L. A. Onajobi; W. S. Sawyer. Scale B.

Senior Shipping and Shipping Officers—J. T. Flockart; R. Thompson; N. E. Wolters; R. M. Watson; G. E. Pole; R. C. Cockock. Scale B.

Assistant Director (Produce Inspection)—J. R. Vernon. Group K.

Principal Produce Officers—J. F. B. Watling; J. C. Bytheway; J. R. Brown; N. W. Hardwick. Group P.

Senior Produce and Produce Officers—E. G. Harmer; F. Jones; G. M. Harnden; K. E. Toms; E. S. Ajayi; B. O. Ogunninya; N. M. Waldman; H. W. Pert; D. J. R. Walker; R. W. H. Willoughby; J. A. G. Stent; P. H. Tompkins; J. C. Priddy; D. I. Nosuri; J. Fleming; H. Cocks; J. Henderson; M. W. Slay; H. D. Mendham; J. E. I. Martin; R. H. Simcock; D. C. Price; B. Apiafi. Scale B.

MEDICAL

Director of Medical Services—G. B. Walker, C.B.E. Group B.

Deputy Director of Medical Services—C. Wilson. Group D.2.

Deputy Directors of Medical Services (Regional)—S. L. A. Manuwa; D. Murray; E. C. Gilles; R. E. Barrett. Group E.

Assistant Directors of Medical Services—J. H. Pottinger; F. L. G. Selby; G. M. M. Menzies; N. E. W. Anderson; T. H. L. Montgomery. Group O.

Chief Establishment Officer—I. Benazon. Group P.

Hospital Secretary—G. Parker. Scale B.

Chief Accountant—Vacant. Group P.

Senior Accountant and Accountants—K. Widdas; O. Vincenti; Major G. F. Turner; T. Briggs; R. A. Martins; A. C. O. Dawodu; J. Curtis. Scale B.
Senior Medical Officers—H. C. Weir; W. Hunter; C. P. Murray; L. E. R. Henshaw, O.B.E.; C. N. Latham; F. W. W. Fox; W. Crawford; W. T. M. Gilbert; L. W. Banks; C. P. Champion; H. A. A. Doherty; S. E. Onwu; A. G. W. Branch. Group J.

Senior Specialists and Specialists—I. G. MacGregor; R. G. A. Savage, O.B.E.; G. E. Dodds; T. L. Lawson; B. S. Jones; V. G. Springett; A. H. Hall; M. A. Majekodunmi; E. W. R. Hackett; K. J. Gilchrist. Groups G. and H.

Alienist—D. I. Cameron. Group J.

Medical Officers—D. W. McLaren; D. C. G. Hanlon; W. McLelland; J. A. L. Innes; E. N. O'Neill; W. Johnson; J. T. Femi-Pearce; K. Sagoe; A. O. Majekodunmi; J. B. Henderson; W. Serle, O.B.E.; A. L. F. Thomson; J. I. Lesh; J. P. Harrison; S. O. Awoliyi; G. E. McVitie; B. J. Green; S. H. A. Pearse; A. O. Coker; M. O. Alakija; W. G. Davidson; H. W. Smith; P. Frischman; Major D. C. V. O'Driscoll; W. Mullen; F. J. Cauchi; T. P. Binns; S. C. Ferguson; J. E. Furness; N. Leitch; H. B. Gibson; J. Toner; Miss M. Calvert; B. M. Nicol, O.B.E.; T. D. I. H. Marrable; P. R. Cooper; O. B. Alakija; C. M. Norman Williams; E. N. O. Sodeinde; R. M. Winston; J. J. Elbert, M.B.E.; H. M. Archibald, M.B.E.; R. A. B. Dikko; I. K. Hay; S. O. Franklin; Miss E. Scott; G. R. H. Drew; V. W. J. Hatred; H. G. McQuade; A. L. McKnight; O. D. Macnamara; G. F. Houston; J. J. Phillips; F. G. Williams; H. W. Woolner; D. W. Quantrill; J. A. B. Nicholson, M.B.E.; F. O. Adewole; J. A. Pearse; D. J. Amah; R. Dickie; F. H. Budden; A. Kertesz; O. O. Sofunje; C. C. A. Adeniyi-Jones; I. G. Thomson; G. W. Moore; D. N. Okonkwo; J. K. Nwankwo; J. St. G. Warman; J. A. Ademiluyi; P. V. N. Ezekwe; E. E. Bassey; F. O. Esiri; E. C. Erokwu; M. P. Otolorin; J. Haworth; S. E. Imoke; R. H. Strudwick; A. O. Sasegbon; R. N. Onyemelukwe; J. Gemmell; A. J. Williams; J. J. Barton; G. C. Butler; A. D. J. Farquharson; N. M. B. Dean; A. Zahra; J. E. Stobbs; Miss L. E. McNeill; D. J. P. Parker; S. O. Egwuatu; A. H. Thomas; F. A. Pearson; J. T. Nelson Cole; S. G. Gordon; D. L. Mackay; D. W. Horn; Mrs. V. F. Wilkins; A. M. Langwill; J. R. P. Murley; J. A. Fajemisin; E. K. Akappo; J. A. Akingbehin; J. O. Omitowujo; J. W. Cookey-Gam; A. A. Adesanya; E. I. P. Ebosie; B. J. Ikpeme; O. J. Vanderpuye; A. Alakija; D. O. Ndukwe; T. Lambo. Scale M.2, 3.

Assistant Medical Officers—S. E. Onejeme; E. A. Okon; M. B. A. Ogakwu; R. E. Onwumere; N. C. Nwokolo; S. E. A. Ewa; J. D. Soleye; C. A. Ezike; R. Ofondu; D. I. L. Nkemeh; E. A. B. Adenuga; A. A. Azie; J. O. Okezie; V. G. Ene. Scale A. (Modified.)

Senior Dental Surgeon—G. W. Bateman. Group J.

Dental Surgeons—G. L. Sharp; J. Jackson; T. W. J. Black; R. S. Yates; R. A. C. Dove; E. T. I. Green. Scale M.3.

Dental Technician Instructor—S. E. Baker. Scale C.3.

Senior Dental Technician—Vacant. Scale C.3.

Senior Storekeeper—I. N. Acraman. Scale B. (Upper segment.)

Medical Storekeepers and Inspecting Pharmacists—M. Ritchie; R. Wright; W. Stewart; H. Batten. Scale B.

Inspecting Radiographer—Vacant. Scale C.3.

Chief Nursing Officer—L. Oliver. Scale C.3.

Health Service

Senior Health Officers—Vacant. Group J.

Medical Officers of Health—V. F. Forbes-Winslow; W. C. Smith; J. P. Sexton; J. R. H. Berrie. Scale M.2, 3.

Dermatologist—G. H. V. Clarke. Scale M.2, 3.

Senior Specialist (Tuberculosis)—Vacant. Group G.

Senior Malariologist—L. J. Bruce-Chwatt. Group J.

Laboratory Service

Assistant Director of Laboratory Service—Vacant. Group G.

Senior Pathologist—D. A. Cannon. Group J.

Pathologists—P. B. Adamson; I. H. Gordon; C. E. W. Hoar; H. D. Tonking; G. T. Barnes; J. D. Manning; P. J. L. Roche; P. B. Stones. Scale M.2, 3.

Senior Laboratory Superintendents—J. A. Smith; D. C. Lorimer. Scale C.2, 3.

Medical and Pharmacy Schools

Principal of the Medical School—W. E. S. Merrett, O.B.E. Group J.

Principal, School of Pharmacy—L. C. Bell. Scale A.

Superintendent, School of Pharmacy—A. J. Bearman. Scale A.

Virus Research Institute

Director—Vacant. Group E.

Deputy Director—Vacant. Group G.

Research Medical Officer—F. N. Macnamara. Scale M.2, 3.

Research Entomologist—K. H. Ooi. Scale A.

Senior Laboratory Superintendent—J. E. Knight. Scale C.2, 3.

Sleeping Sickness Service

Senior Medical Officer—J. L. McLetchie. Group J.

Sleeping Sickness Medical Officers—J. C. Chartres; A. J. Duggan. Scale A.

Entomologist—R. J. Kernaghan. Scale A.

Senior Sleeping Sickness Control Officer—F. E. Harnett. Scale C.3.

Leprosy Control Service

Assistant Director—Vacant. Group G.

Senior Leprosy Officer—R. H. Bland. Group J.

Senior Specialist (Leprologist)—J. Lowe. Group H.

Medical Officers—T. F. Davey; C. M. Ross; Miss L. M. M. Lengauer, O.B.E.; A. S. Garrett; B. Nicholson; M. G. Corcos; K. S. Seal. Scale A.

Physiological Research

Heat Research Officer—W. S. S. Ladell. Scale A.

Physiologist—J. G. Fletcher. Scale A.

Meteorological Service

Chief Meteorologist—J. R. Clackson. Group L.

Meteorologist—R. B. Stonehouse. Scale A.

Assistant Meteorologists—H. T. Dale; L. Ross; F/O N. A. Akingbehin; D. Jones; D. McPherson; H. J. Bigelstone; A. P. Johnson; D. McF. Montgomerie. Scale C.1, 2, 3.
MINES

Chief Inspector of Mines—H. R. Mitchell. Group H.

Deputy Chief Inspector of Mines—W. P. Gaskell. Group M.

Assistant Chief Inspector of Mines—R. Patterson. Group O.

Senior Inspectors and Inspectors of Mines—F. A. Cassidy; T. H. G. Gotsworth; L. O. N. Thomson; Major D. E. S. King; Major J. B. Hooper; Capt. I. S. Ferguson; D. R. Carlton; J. B. Braithwaite; J. C. Erskine. Scale A.

POLICE

Commissioner of Police—I. H. E. J. Stourton, O.B.E. Group E.

Deputy Commissioner of Police—R. V. D. White. Group K.

Assistant Commissioners of Police—R. S. Shuel; A. C. Luck, O.B.E.; R. J. P. McLaughlan; R. G. Henderson. Group N.

Senior Superintendents—J. B. G. Austin; A. T. G. Trumble; N. M. ffrench; E. S. Morgan; S. P. George; J. A. Macdonald; E. S. Sherwood; H. P. G. Hodgkinson; A. C. C. Peebles; M. T. Williams; J. E. Hodge; W. G. Syer; D. S. Fountain; N. K. Millett; H. J. Armittage; L. G. Purkis; R. C. C. Jarrett, B.E.M.; R. H. F. England; A. Cooper; E. J. R. Ormiston. Group P.

Superintendents, Senior Assistant Superintendents, Assistant Superintendents and Cadets—G. A. V. de Boissiere; N. H. B. Forde; A. E. Stafford; R. N. Alcock; E. Everett; W. A. de Burgh Sidney; J. B. Heard; M. J. T. Cartlidge; I. S. Proud; A. N. M. Davies; N. R. Cressy; J. T. Ogbolu; P. C. T. Marner; R. W. Laverick; T. J. Pritlove; G. McGarry; L. H. Brown; T. R. Pallett; D. Matheson; W. Ford; R. D. Milne; A. S. E. Agbabiaka; M. G. Amu; E. A. Oluwole; F. G. Brett; G. A. Kirwan; N. B. Menzies; Capt. R. P. Rankin; Major J. J. O'Sullivan, M.B.E.; J. S. Bell; O. P. S. Jones, M.C.; Capt. H. D. Milling; Major E. C. Eates; Major A. A. Dear; J. R. Swain, B.E.M.; R. H. V. Biles; S. C. Smith, D.F.C.; J. D. Harman; R. A. Brown; G. R. Rudd; Major J. H. K. Pappas; A. O. Jones; C. G. B. Gidley; Capt. L. R. Macdonald, M.M.; R. A. Howse; Major L. A. Marsden; G. B. McCaffery; Capt. V. P. Birch; P. G. F. Sewell; G. L. E. Lindow; B. S. Holloway; A. G. Morman; J. T. A. Dixon; R. G. Lock; J. K. McIntosh; J. M. Egbuson; J. O. Onyekwue; F. B. Williams; J. C. Graves; P. F. Page; J. A. Lapage; Major I. F. R. Ramsay; R. Hamilton; L. N. Asika; W. J. Chestnut; E. S. Treasure, M.B.E.; O. Belo; J. Okoli; E. Olufunwa; L. O. Edet; P. O. Chude; J. Nnodi; M. Roberts; B. A. Adedipe; E. K. Keazer; F. Anughere; D. G. T. Alexander; F. A. B. Randall; R. Rollo; Lt.-Col. G. W. S. Holland; A. W. Standen; D. L. B. Davies; G. M. MacDougall; P. A. Greenaway; A. H. Bishop; J. F. Ross; O. J. M. Ford; Major D. B. D. Chatterton, M.C. Scale B.

Superintendents, Senior Assistant Superintendents, Assistant Superintendents and Cadets (Traffic Officers)—J. M. Mair; F. A. Clark; A. W. F. Bacon. Scale B.

POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS

Director of Posts and Telegraphs—P. A. Courtney, C.B.E. Group G.

Deputy Director, Posts and Accounts—R. E. G. Wilkins. Group K.

Establishment Officer—A. H. Christian. Scale B. (Upper Segment.)

Chief Accountant—W. J. Collison. Group N.

Senior Accountants—M. A. Kuku; T. J. Bennett. Scale B. (Upper Segment.)

Accounts—L. A. Rowe; S. O. Ogunyemi; F. C. Johnson; L. V. Wailes; N. D. Britten; P. B. Egun. Scale B.

Senior Storekeeper—L. V. Fields. Scale B. (Upper segment.)

Controller of Posts—L. R. Langridge. Group N.

Divisional Surveyors—K. G. W. McArthur; T. R. C. Raikes; W. Patterson; R. W. Corkill. Group P.

Senior Surveyors—F. Ogg; A. S. Stubbs. Scale B. (Upper Segment.)

Surveyors—W. E. Williams; L. W. Taylor; E. J. Davies; E. M. May; B. R. Secker; C. R. Thomas; E. Chesterton; G. N. Hamilton; C. N. Aghanya; E. O. Asika; C. T. Husbands; O. S. Phillip; A. Bluejack; E. W. Parr; E. O. Asuquo. Scale B.

Assistant Engineers-in-Chief—R. W. Stephens; J. W. Jehu; T. G. King. Group N.

Divisional Engineers—A. K. Todd; J. A. Farrer; C. M. L. Parker; Major J. E. Rodgers. Group O.

Senior Engineers—G. P. Williams; A. E. Cheal; J. Briggs. Scale A. (Upper segment.)

Engineers—D. Ackroyd; K. P. Wilson; Major S. G. Leigh-Morgan; S. A. Hatfield; A. Anderson; W. H. French; A. L. Griffiths; G. H. T. Robinson; R. C. Oje; A. W. Hanson; H. C. T. Winfield; C. C. Nwazota; A. G. Baker; J. Moxon; J. C. Saunders; A. C. Martin; G. F. Baxter. Scale A.

Superintendent of Workshops—Major D. G. Harrison. Scale A. (Upper Segment.)

Assistant Superintendent of Workshops—G. J. Bailey. Scale A.

Senior Wireless Station Superintendents—E. R. Richardson; F. F. Brewer; L. M. Goodman. Scale C.3.

PRINTING AND STATIONERY

Government Printer—R. Freeman. Group M.

Deputy Government Printer—D. N. Fergusson. Scale B. (Maximum.)

Superintendent of Press—R. B. Allen. Scale C.3.

PRISONS

Director of Prisons—R. H. Dolan. Group H.

Deputy Director of Prisons.—S. W. Brittain-Long. Group M.

Inspectors of Prisons—H. W. Hayllor; J. A. Brown; A. Clark. Scale B. (Upper Segment.)

PUBLIC RELATIONS

Public Relations Officer—H. Cooper. Group H.

Assistant Public Relations Officer—J. Stocker. Scale A.

Regional Public Relations Officers—Lt.-Col. G. W. P. Thorn; Capt. G. D. C. Money. Scale A.

Senior Broadcasting Officer—C. P. de S. Milner-Haigh. Scale B.

Press Officer—A. Lijadu; A. G. Ridley. Scale B.

Film Unit Director/Producer—L. Snazelle. Scale A.

Cinema Officer—B. W. Knight-Simpson. Scale B.
Editor "Nigeria" and Organiser of Exhibitions—E. H. Duckworth. Group O.
Senior Process Engraver—E. L. Cooke. Scale C.I, 2, 3.
Photographers—F. Uher; M. A. Macaulay. Scale C.I, 2, 3.

PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
Director—R. W. Taylor, C.M.G. Group C.
Deputy Director—A. McDonald. Group G.
Regional Deputy Directors—J. M. Sleigh; K. P. Humbridge. Group H.
Assistant Directors—D. S. Bulbin; C. E. Andreas; W. A. Dow; T. Scott. Group K.
Senior Executive Engineers—K. Sadler; A. G. Boorman; E. Iliff; P. I. O'Connor; J. B. R. Pedder; R. E. G. Ferguson; F. H. Woodrow; W. R. W. Ferguson; M. R. Hall. Group N.
Executive Engineers, Grade I—J. A. Henry; C. W. M. Williams; H. P. Pooley; S. C. Barrie; W. Grant; A. H. Clarke; E. H. Marfleet; J. M. Longson; J. W. Stokes; W. D. B. Kingston; D. H. Yanold; D. Evans; H. C. Garlick; G. D. G. Plummer; R. J. Owens; R. L. Armstrong; A. Williams; C. H. Beach; E. Jones. Scale A (Upper Segment).
Executive Engineers, Grades II, III and IV—K. N. Ashton; B. H. Bullen; T. M. Steven; J. R. Hughes; E. S. Armitage; N. L. Mitchell; A. G. Skinner; W. S. Adams; I. R. E. Iweka; G. P. Manners; J. M. Bruce; R. A. P. Leach; J. K. Cush; F. M. Burgess; B. I. Brough; A. H. Lewis; M. H. Widows; W. G. Mahaffy; O. Gibb; A. P. F. Temple; J. C. Proud; K. R. Rollinson; H. Rogers; G. A. Bell; C. R. Pickering; W. E. Wood; J. D. Boardman; J. A. Vickers; K. T. Watson; E. D. Walcott; J. D. Rabett; E. A. Walley; D. P. Nyhan; J. A. Edgeley; K. C. W. James; C. A. Thwaites; B. W. Knott; C. H. H. Murphy; D. L. Perley; R. F. B. Griffin; P. B. Green; J. Bradshaw (Jnr.); R. T. Scott; H. B. Vine; R. W. Watts; C. J. Cox; H. G. Newbold; G. O. Akinyemi. Scale A (Upper Segment).
Mechanical Engineers, Grade I—G. T. Paul; A. MacInnes. Scale A (Upper Segment).
Mechanical Engineers, Grade II—H. T. Hill; A. H. Mileman; H. Thompson; P. A. Thompson. Scale A.
Senior Architect—G. R. Stout. Group N.
Architects, Grade I—J. L. Hope; J. E. Evans. Scale A (Upper Segment).
Architects, Grade II—W. S. A. Prew; C. S. M. Davidson. Scale A.
Works Manager—F. Wheeler. Scale A (Upper Segment).
Labour Relations Officer—J. W. W. Hallam. Scale A.
Chief Accountant—J. A. Ellis. Group N.
Accountants—E. J. Hart; A. T. Kemp; N. Hughes; F. E. Endersen; E. A. Ogunbiyi; D. Longmuir; K. E. Meare; A. S. Ajibona; F. J. Scutt; S. H. Borland; B. W. Moss; V. A. Davies. Scale B.
Chief Storekeeper—P. L. Johns. Group P.
Senior Storekeepers—L. E. Nix; F. J. Burgin; T. Marshall. Scale B (Upper Segment).
Mechanical Engineers (Temporary)—J. M. MacDonald; D. MacQueen; E. H. W. Biggs. Group A.
Chief Drilling Superintendent—H. F. C. Nelson. Scale A.
Executive Engineers (Temporary)—W. L. Rees; C. Saunders; T. W. Dagg. Scale A.
Drilling Superintendents—C. M. Black. Scale A.
Mechanical Engineer—W. Allen. Scale A.
Executive Engineers (Temporary)—M. R. Nowak; J. R. L. Owen. Scale A.
Mechanical Engineers (Temporary)—J. G. H. Rogers; J. R. Thompson; A. Galloway; J. A. Stowell. Scale A.
Inspectors (Temporary)—T. F. Summers; J. E. Penrose; J. McLaflerty; J. T. E. Clarke; D. C. Pitcher; G. Blundell; V. C. Renny; F. J. Reynolds; A. W. Collingwood; H. J. Mortimer. Scale A.

RAILWAY
General Manager—D. C. Woodward. Group B.
Assistant General Manager (Operating)—G. O. Urion. Group G.
Principal Assistant to General Manager—B. H. Simmonds. Group N.
Senior Administrative Assistant—Vacant. Scale B (Upper Segment).
Railway Printer—A. G. Banfield. £900.
Assistant General Manager (Staff)—H. E. P. Plumridge. Group J.
Principal Assistant—Vacant. Group N.
Principal Assistant Supernumerary—S. Davies. Group N.
Establishment Officers—R. E. Jenkins; E. Slee; K. H. Havart; R. N. Rapson. Scale B (Upper Segment).
Chief Accountant—F. Sander. Group J.
Assistant Chief Accountant—C. W. Harvey. Group N.
Principal Accountant—J. L. Bomford. Group P.
Senior Accountants and Accountants—J. S. Nicholas; R. S. Lane; A. B. S. Daykin; A. O. Oresanya; H. J. Broadbent; C. H. Bryant; H. J. Phillips; J. B. Shusi; E. F. A. Dada; M. A. S. Agbaje; C. O. Odugbesan; J. O. Neye; J. W. Butler; J. Stonley; M. C. M. Idigo; P. H. R. Doyle. Scale B.
Stores Superintendent—W. J. Lardner. Group M.
Assistant Stores Superintendent—A. F. Lewis. £950.
Senior Storekeepers—C. G. New; F. Ridout; S. C. Goodman. Scale B (Upper Segment).

Civil Engineering
Chief Engineer—E. J. B. Gahan. Group G.
Assistant Chief Engineer—G. S. Dick. Group K.
New Works Engineer—C. B. Watson. Group M.
District Engineers—R. Bridgman; S. P. Smith. Group N.
Senior Assistant Engineers—H. R. Guenin; R. B. Hood; G. L. Davis; E. J. Andrews; D. A. L. Gillespie; A. S. Webb. Scale A (Upper Segment).
Assistant Engineers—W. B. Wilkinson; F. G. Joscelyne; J. G. Sherry; H. M. Alexander; H. T. Astley; D. A. L. Wallace; R. Marshall; J. M. Lambert; J. W. Chaloner; G. W. Launder; J. Nugent; D. Dearlove; C. M. Field; J. T. MacGregor. Scale A.
Assistant Engineers (Supernumerary)—D. S. Wills; J. E. Garvey. Scale A.
Engineer-in-Charge, Drawing Office—F. A. Collard. Scale A (Upper Segment).
Signals Superintendent—W. A. J. Buckingham. Scale B (Upper Segment).

Mechanical Engineering
Chief Mechanical Engineer—T. B. Welch. Group G.
Assistant Chief Mechanical Engineer—J. W. Duggan. Group K.
Research Officer—G. Hodge. Group N.
Works Manager—G. H. Binnie. Group M.
Senior Assistant Works Manager—J. R. J. Pett. Scale A (Upper Segment).
Assistant Works Managers—F. A. O. Phillips; J. S. P. Phillips. Scale A.
Carriage and Wagon Superintendent—Vacant. Group O.
Senior Assistant Carriage and Wagon Superintendent—S. V. Spencer. Scale A (Upper Segment).
Assistant Carriage and Wagon Superintendent—L. C. Robins. Scale A.
Electrical Engineer—C. E. Brendish. Scale A.
District Locomotive Superintendents—W. H. J. Moull; G. H. Bransom; J. O. Bannister. Group N.
Senior Assistant Locomotive Superintendents—F. E. Sheppard; F. J. H. Jackel; V. F. Meeson. Scale A (Upper Segment).
Assistant Locomotive Superintendents—H. B. Kille; H. R. R. Farmer; R. A. Burns. Scale A.
Locomotive Running Assistants—R. H. Edmondson; J. M. Thomson; W. A. T. Richardson. Scale C.2, 3.

Traffic and Commercial

Traffic Manager—W. H. Best. Group G.
Assistant Traffic Manager—C. W. Putsey. Group K.
District Traffic Superintendents—C. C. Whittington; T. A. Crawford; C. J. Greenway; R. Carverhill. Group N.
Senior Assistant Traffic Officers and Assistant Traffic Officers—J. T. Hardy; J. O. McNab; W. Sandison; H. J. M. Welsh; J. Taylor; G. H. Seaton; F. Darlington; B. W. Gibson; R. H. Wilcox; T. Russell; C. Clarke; A. M. MacDiarmid; J. H. Outram; G. Grant; H. D. M. Craighead. Scale B.

Road Transport

Road Transport Superintendent—W. Cooke. Group P.
Assistant Road Transport Superintendents—L. J. M. Mitchell; E. S. Dennison. Scale B.

Wharves

Wharf Superintendent—E. E. Wenban. Group P.
Assistant Wharf Superintendents—S. Kirk; H. G. James; H. A. Gennery. Scale B.

Capital Works

Resident Engineer—A. P. H. Adamson. Group K.
Assistant Engineers—J. F. Carey; J. W. McGirr. Scale A.
Engineer, Bridge Reconstruction—R. Humphreys. £1,000.
Erector, Bridge Reconstruction—R. Anderson. £735.

SOCIAL WELFARE

Senior Welfare Officer—D. E. Faulkner. O.B.E. Group P.
Social Welfare Officers—F. W. K. Skeates; Miss A. Izzett; E. E. Hillier; Miss P. D. Fairclough; S. Bankole-Wright; Miss M. L. Belcher; E. L. Jegede; Miss W. Onipede; H. C. Swaisland; P. Graham. Scale C.1, 2, 3.
Port Welfare Officer—G. M. Brocklebank. Scale C.1, 2, 3.
Shipping Master—P. Von Mehren. Scale C.1, 2, 3.

STATISTICS

Government Statistician—W. A. Stuart Williams. Group M.
Statisticians—S. B. Chambers; P. M. Rees; Miss J. Tyrrell; J. Longden (Temporary); C. A. Ellis. Scale A.

SURVEY

Director of Surveys—A. P. Mitchell. Group H.
Deputy Director of Surveys—A. J. Morley. Group M.
Assistant Directors of Surveys—H. Isherwood; Lt.-Col. T. G. Blanchflower. Group O.
Senior Surveyors—T. Russell; E. A. Rothery; M. D. Wimbush; K. H. Hunter; J. H. Keast. Scale A. (Upper Segment.)
Surveyors—W. G. Wookey; K. M. Sargeant; D. MacPhee; J. F. Alan-Lees; S. A. Ishola Bucknor; F. T. M. Wey; W. Gascoyne; A. D. Willey; D. C. Eva; A. C. Kemavor. Scale A.
Chief Computer—R. W. Pring. Scale A.

VETERINARY

Director of Veterinary Services—W. G. Beaton. Group E.
Deputy Director of Veterinary Services—R. S. Marshall. Group J.
Assistant Directors of Veterinary Services—J. Morten; G. M. Gates; H. K. Littlewood. Group K.
Senior Veterinary Officers—R. Coulthard; J. McCulloch; J. D. Birkett; D. E. Macgregor. Scale A.
Veterinary Officers—D. Hill; D. A. W. Walker; A. H. A. Hamilton; K. J. R. Maclennan; G. Calderbank; J. R. Knowles; A. D. Campbell; P. W. Swire; E. Krog; N. T. A. Grunnet. Scale A.
Assistant Veterinary Officers—W. O. Ndep; T. A. Mbaeliachi. Scale A (modified).
Assistant Director of Laboratory Services—R. W. M. Mettam. Group K.
Senior Veterinary Research Officer—R. M. Gambles. Scale A.
Veterinary Research Officer—A. L. C. Thorne. Scale A.
Principal, Veterinary School—G. Williamson. Group M.
Veterinary Education Officers—W. E. Pearson; K. Nixon. Scale A.
Veterinary Research Officers—R. J. Garner; E. P. Lindley. Scale A.
Development Officers (Veterinary)—L. J. Morris; R. A. Plank; F. W. I. Gash; F. V. Charlesworth; V. E. Hughes-Jones; H. Davies; F. B. H. Jenkin; T. V. Smith-Peacock; D. H. L. Young; J. M. Mortimer; W. Smith; C. E. M. Bodenham; F. H. Bridge; R. Coe; J. B. Philips. Scale B (modified).

W.A. INSTITUTE FOR TRYPANOSOMIASIS RESEARCH (Nigerian Organisation)

Director—Col. H. W. Mulligan. Group D.1.
Chief Entomologist—T. A. M. Nash. Group K.
Research Entomologist—W. A. Page. Scale A. (Chief Epidemiologist.)
Research Epidemiologists—A. J. Duggan; M. P. Hutchinson. Scale A.
Research Parasitologists—F. L. Vanderplank. Scale A.
Veterinary Research Officers—K. Unsworth; R. L. Chandler. Scale A.
Administrative Secretary—N. F. Bowers. Scale A.
