NORTHERN RHODESIA

SITUATION AND AREA

Northern Rhodesia comprises the northern part of the territory formerly administered by the British South Africa Company, whose principal field of operations was defined in the Charter of Incorporation as "the region of South Africa lying immediately to the north of British Bechuanaland, and to the north and west of the South African Republic, and to the west of the Portuguese dominions." It lies wholly to the north of the Zambezi River and is bounded by Tanganyika and the Belgian Congo on the north; Nyasaland and Portuguese East Africa on the east; Southern Rhodesia and South-West Africa on the south and Portuguese West Africa on the west.

The area of the territory is estimated at about 284,745 square miles.

Northern Rhodesia is divided into six provinces for fiscal and administrative purposes. The seat of government is at Lusaka, to which the principal departmental headquarters were moved from Livingstone in May, 1935. Other important settlements are at Livingstone, Broken Hill, Fort Jameson, Mazabuka, Ndola, near which the copper mines of Nchanga, Nkana (Kitwe), Roan Antelope (Luanshya) and Mulufira are situated, Abercorn, Kasama, Fort Rosebery and Mongu in Barotseland.

CLIMATE

The climate, except in the low-lying parts, may be described as sub-tropical. Temperatures are moderate during the winter months, viz., from May to August. In low-lying parts the mean temperature varies from 70° F. to 90° F. with a maximum of 103° F. and a minimum of 56° F. In the high plateau the mean temperature varies from 55° F. to 75° F. with a maximum of 86° F. and a minimum of 40° F. In some parts the maximum temperature has reached the high figure of 120° F., whilst a minimum of 30° F. or less is not infrequent.

As a whole the country may be said to be suitable for white settlement, and Europeans have little to fear from the point of view of health if reasonable precautions are taken.

The average rainfall varies from over 50 inches in the northern and high-lying portions of the territory to 25 inches or less in the southern and south-eastern parts. On the average little or no rain falls during the period May to September. The month of October usually brings from about half an inch to two inches. The period, November to March, is the real wet season, during which anything from 70 per cent. to 90 per cent. of the total annual rainfall occurs. From April onwards the rains diminish again.

GENERAL DESCRIPTION

With the exception of the valleys of the Zambezi, the Luapula, the Kafue and the Luangwa rivers the greater part of Northern Rhodesia has a flat to rolling topography, with elevations varying from 3,000 feet to 5,000 feet above sea level, but in the north-eastern districts the plateau rises to occasional altitudes of over 5,000 feet. In many localities the evenness of the plateau is broken by hills, sometimes occurring as chains which develop into areas of broken country. The highest group of hills is the Muchinga Mountains, which form part of the great escarpment running down the western edge of the Luangwa River valley, and of these, individual peaks rise to about 8,000 feet.

On the whole the territory is well wooded, even the crests of the highest hills bearing trees and orchard-like bush. Hundreds of square miles of country lie under tall grass along the Kafue in an area known as the Kafue Flats, in the Barotse plains near the Zambezi and also a large area south of Lake Bangweulu. These open grassy spaces for the most part contain swamps in which the water level fluctuates with the rainy seasons. The southern and central districts comprise areas where sparse bush alternates with grass lands in which farming and ranching have developed.

A glance at a large scale map suggests that the territory is well watered, but many of the smaller rivers shown have a seasonal flow and dry up after the rains. The larger rivers, the Zambezi, Kafue, Luangwa, the Chambeshi and the Luapula, together with their larger tributaries, have an all-year-round flow. The three great lakes of Northern Rhodesia are Lake Bangweulu in the northern district and lakes Mweru and Tanganyika on the northern boundaries. Lake Bangweulu and the swamps at its southern end cover an area of about 3,800 square miles, and there are a number of other much smaller lakes such as Lake Young in the Mpika district, Lake Chila near Abercorn, Lake Chiengwa near Ndola and Luswasi Lake (or Lake Moir) off the Great North Road to the east of Serenje. Northern Rhodesia has the greatest waterfall in the world, the Victoria Falls, on its southern boundary and the highest waterfall in Africa, Kalambo Falls, 704 feet, on its northern border.

POPULATION

The latest population estimates, at 31st December, 1948, are as follows:

| Europeans | 32,000 |
| Asiatics | 1,950 |
| Coloured | 850 |
| Africans: | |
| Male | 805,000 |
| Female | 805,000 |
| Total | 1,610,000 |
RELIGION

Estimated figures are as follows (as at 1946):

1. European:
   - Christian:
     - Roman Catholics: 5,257
     - Protestants: 15,028
     - Others: 1,487
     Total: 21,772
   - Non-Christian: 135
     Total: 21,907

2. Asiatics:
   - Christians: 18
   - Hindus: 768
   - Mohammedans: 333
     Total: 1,119

3. Coloured:
   - Christians: 723
   - Mohammedans: 18
   - Hindus: 5
   - Agnostics: 19
   - Pagans: 24
     Total: 789

4. Africans:
   - Roman Catholics: 120,584
   - Protestants: 145,367
   - Pagans: 1,275,769
     Total: 1,541,720

HISTORY

The first explorations north of the Zambezi were carried out by various Portuguese travellers at the end of the eighteenth century. The first British person to enter Northern Rhodesia was Dr. Livingstone who reached the Zambezi in 1855. The Arab slave trade had begun a few years before Livingstone’s arrival and flourished from that time onwards till 1893, 20 years after the death of Livingstone at Chitambo. The Arab influence was at first most felt in the north but soon extended over the whole country. It was not until 1893, by which time a Government post (Abercorn) near the south of Lake Tanganyika, and several mission stations were established, that this trade received any check. Blow after blow was inflicted by the destruction of the Arab settlements on Lake Nyasa, and with the defeat of the Arab chief Mlozi by Sir Harry Johnston at Karonga in 1894, the days of the slave trade in British Central Africa were numbered. The last caravan of slaves in Northern Rhodesia (interceptioned on its way to the east coast via Lake Nyasa) was released at Fort Jameson, which had just been established, in 1898.

On 29th October, 1889, a Royal Charter was granted to the British South Africa Company conferring upon it large powers of administration in Rhodesia to carry out the objects for which it was formed, the principal being to extend northwards the railway and telegraph systems of the Cape Colony and Bechuanaland, to encourage emigration and colonisation, to promote trade and commerce and to develop and work mineral and other concessions.

Prior to 1911 the territory now called Northern Rhodesia consisted of two separate territories (a) Barotseland-North-Western Rhodesia and (b) North-Eastern Rhodesia. On 4th May of that year these two territories were amalgamated under the title of Northern Rhodesia.

Several engagements took place during the Great War with forces from German East Africa. In March, 1921, Sir Drummond Chaplin, Administrator of Southern Rhodesia, became also Administrator of Northern Rhodesia.

In July, 1923, a settlement was arranged of the various outstanding questions relating to the British South Africa Company’s position in Southern and Northern Rhodesia. As far as Northern Rhodesia was concerned, the effect of the settlement, which was conditional on its acceptance by the shareholders and the approval of Parliament, was that the Company surrendered its buildings and assets used for administrative purposes, and its land and monopoly rights other than mineral rights under its concessions in Northern Rhodesia but retained three freehold areas in the Tanganyika Province of North-Eastern Rhodesia; on the other hand the Company would receive on 1st October, 1923, a cash payment from His Majesty’s Government, and would retain a half interest for 40 years in the net proceeds of the disposal of land in North-Western Rhodesia, such disposal to be in the hands of the administration of the territory; the Company would receive the Crown’s recognition of its mineral rights in Northern Rhodesia and a considerable measure of protection for its railway interests; and the Crown would waive its whole claim against the Company in respect of extraordinary military expenditure incurred in the course of the Great War. Subject to the foregoing, the Company would retain the whole of its commercial rights and assets; no further question would be raised as to any liability of the Company in respect of land appropriated for the purpose of its own commercial undertakings or granted to other parties; and the Company would be relieved of the duty of carrying on the administration of Northern Rhodesia. This provisional arrangement was unanimously approved by the shareholders, and on 25th July, 1923, was approved by the House of Commons.

CONSTITUTION

By Orders-in-Council dated 20th February, 1924, the office of Governor of Northern Rhodesia was created, an Executive Council constituted, and provision made for the constitution of a Legislative Council.

The Executive Council is at present composed of the Governor as President, the Chief Secretary to the Government, the Attorney-General, the Financial Secretary, the Secretary for Native Affairs, the Administrative Secretary, the Economic Secretary, one Nominated Official Member (the Director of Development) and four Unofficial Members of whom three are Elected Members of the Legislative Council and one a Nominated Member of the Legislative Council representing African interests. The Legislative Council consists of a Speaker, nine Official Members, of whom six are ex-officio members and three are nominated, and fourteen Unofficial Members, of whom ten are elected Europeans, two are Europeans nominated to represent African interests and two are nominated African Members.

ADMINISTRATION

The natives are administered as far as possible through their own chiefs or headmen, who function as native authorities and courts. Administrative and judicial functions are combined in the
District Officers. The Barotse Province is a native reserve, and is administered under conditions differing in some respects from those obtaining elsewhere. The Paramount Chief of the Barotse has a kuta or native council to assist him.

The law of the territory is that of England except in so far as it may be inapplicable or may have been or may hereafter be modified by legislation, but no Act of Parliament of the United Kingdom passed subsequent to 17th August, 1911, is deemed to apply to the territory unless it has been specifically applied.

Administrative officers in their capacities as magistrates of subordinate courts have a limited civil and criminal jurisdiction. Appeals, both civil and criminal, lie from subordinate courts of the 3rd class to provincial commissioners' courts and from subordinate courts (including provincial commissioners' courts) of the 1st and 2nd class to the High Court.

In the large towns, Resident Magistrates, who are professional lawyers, hold courts of the first class.

SOCIAL SERVICES

Education

European

At the end of 1949 there were 16 Government schools in the territory. Of these, 11 offered primary education up to Standard 5 and secondary education up to Form II. Five schools provided instruction only within the primary range, from K.G. to Standard 5 at Fort Jameson and Silver Rest and from K.G. to Standard 2 at Abercorn, Kafue and Kasama. The total enrolment at Government schools was 3,730.

Certain controlled schools under private management catered for children below the permissive school age and others offered instruction within the Government school range. In addition, the Broken Hill Convent School offered secondary education up to Cambridge School Certificate standard (Form IV) and the Luanshya Convent School had a Form III, in which general instruction including commercial subjects was given. At other convent schools, instruction in commercial subjects and music was made available to pupils after Form II. The total enrolment at controlled schools under private management was 858, including 55 children below the permissive school age.

Boarding accommodation was available at four Government schools and five private schools.

By arrangement with the Southern Rhodesia Education Department correspondence tuition was provided, as required, for children (mainly six to eight years old) living more than three miles from the nearest day school.

Coloured and Asiatic

Katapoloo School, under Government management, offered education for coloured children in the primary range. There were three private government-aided Indian schools.

African

The Department of African Education supervises the educational work of the mission societies which, assisted through a grant-in-aid system, are responsible for the management of the majority of schools in the territory. There is an advisory board on African Education with Mission, African and Government representatives.

In 1949 there were 1,259 schools receiving grant-in-aid, including 39 native authority schools. Tuition is free, fees are paid at boarding schools. Primary education is divided into three grades: Elementary (Sub-Std. A to Std. II); Middle (Stds. III and IV); Upper (Stds. V and VI). The teaching of English normally begins in Sub-Std. B. Teachers for the elementary and middle schools are trained at two Government and 19 mission centres of which five are specifically for girls. The total enrolment in all types of assisted and Government schools is 143,429, of whom 46,558 are girls. Compulsory education for the age group 12–16 years, has been introduced into the five districts on the Copperbelt and at Broken Hill, Livingstone and Choma. As staff and buildings become available it will be introduced at other urban centres.

There are 44 Government schools. The Jeanes School, Chalimbana, trains school supervisors and teachers for the primary schools and also provides an annual course for Chiefs. The Munali Training Centre, Lusaka, includes a trade school and a secondary school with classes going up to the Cambridge School Certificate standard. Africans who desire higher education go either to Makerere College, Uganda, to the South African College, Fort Hare or to the United Kingdom. Government gives bursaries to those who qualify and are selected for higher education.

The estimated expenditure on African education for 1950 is £445,002 of which £223,938 is grants-in-aid for recurrent expenditure. In addition, the sum of £145,446 is estimated to be spent under the Colonial Development and Welfare Scheme.

| No. of Schools | Approximate No. of Pupils |
|---------------|--------------------------|
| Government European | 16 | 3,730 |
| Controlled European | 12 | 1,087 |
| Government Coloured | 1 | 51 |
| Indian Aided | 3 | 125 |
| Government African | 44 | 143,429 |
| African Aided | 1,259 | |
| Totals | 1,335 | 148,422 |

Information Services

The Information Department was established in 1941. The media used are the press, the cinema and broadcasting. The duties of the Department are:

(a) To disseminate information concerning the Territory outside its own borders and particularly in the United Kingdom, to provide accurate information concerning policy and affairs of the Territory for use in foreign countries, so as to counter any misrepresentation of British Colonial policy and activities.

(b) To keep all sections of the public of Northern Rhodesia informed of the policy and activities of its Government.

(c) To keep the population of the Territory informed of His Majesty's Government's Colonial policy, and to assist in the presentation of the British way of life and major developments in the United Kingdom to the people of Northern Rhodesia.
(d) To assist in development campaigns and mass adult education of Africans, and in mass literacy.

(e) To foster the development and expansion of the tourist industry.

The Department maintains a close liaison with the Central African Council, and its Director is a member of the Standing Committee on Public Relations of the Central African Council.

The Department issues about 600 press communiqués and handouts a year on the activities of other departments and drawing the attention of the public to instructions, regulations or ordinances which affect them. Daily communiqués on the proceedings of the Legislative Council, the African Representative Council and the African Provincial Councils are also issued while they are in session. Full publicity is given to the two last named bodies in "Mutende", a vernacular newspaper published by the Department, which has a circulation of over 18,000. Since January, 1950, "Mutende" has been published weekly.

The press communiqués are supplemented by photographs of current events of importance and general interest, for use in local and overseas newspapers. There is a staff of two photographers, and new darkroom facilities have been provided. The demand for photographs, both in Britain and in North America is so great that the photographic section is working continually at full pressure.

Mobile cinemas bring education and entertainment to African villagers. Four mobile cinemas in lorries cover the greater part of the Provinces and one river unit on the Zambezi and another on Lake Bangweulu reach areas that are inaccessible by road. Films are drawn from a film library, part of the Information Department, which has a stock of over 1,100 16-millimetre films. More than 90 fixed point cinemas and private exhibitors also make use of the film library. The organisation of the sittings of the Native Film Censorship Board, which occur two or three times a week, is also a responsibility of the Department.

The Information Department has its own small film production section, producing films mainly for Africans. It also has a share in the Central African Film Unit.

Under an agreement between the Governments of Northern and Southern Rhodesia and Nyasaland, the Department's broadcasting station at Lusaka transmits programmes to the African population of the three territories; the European programmes are transmitted by Southern Rhodesia from Salisbury. Programmes are on the air daily from 4 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. in English, Chibemba, Chinyanja, Silozi, Chitonga, Sishona and Sindebele, on the 41 and 76 metre bands. The programmes include world and local news, talks, plays and music. The introduction of British-made battery sets that sell at £6 5s. each, and their growing popularity among the native population, has recently made broadcasting history; in the first four months after the introduction of the sets nearly 2,000 were sold to Africans, and sales have since continued at a rate of about 400 per month. In addition, a small-scale rediffusion experiment has been initiated in the main African area in Lusaka, and if successful will no doubt be tried elsewhere. With these innovations the problem of African listening facilities is well on the way to being solved. The Department also has 150 community receivers placed in welfare centres, schools, missions and District Headquarters throughout the Territory.

Staff and building shortages, and the non-delivery of equipment, have prevented the full development of the transmission side of broadcasting. A fully qualified engineer, with a small staff of technicians, operates the 2½ kw. transmitter, and in 1950 a 15 kw. transmitter will be installed. Plans have been approved and money granted for extensions to studios and transmitters that will allow simultaneous broadcasting in several languages. These plans should be implemented in 1950 and 1951. A number of recordings of African plays and music have been made and are being distributed commercially through firms in South Africa. With the arrival of mobile recording equipment it is hoped to expand this side of broadcasting activities considerably and to provide new and outstanding material for programmes.

The Department is responsible for the development of the tourist industry. It is at present concerned with the opening up of several new areas for tourists, and with the production of tourist publicity material. The Tourist Officer, a member of the Information Department, has his headquarters at Livingstone.

Health

In Northern Rhodesia, generally speaking, conditions are not unduly hard on white residents and outside the low lying river valleys the climate is mainly very pleasant. There are extensive plateaux 3,000-4,500 feet above sea level and with reasonable precautions there is little to fear from the point of view of health. Susceptible individuals should take precautions against sunburn and protect their eyes from glare by the use of dark glasses.

Modern methods of prophylaxis combined with routine anti-malarial measures in the towns have considerably reduced the risks of contracting malaria.

Investigations have shown that endemic yellow fever is present in the Barotse Province and Balolovo District of the Territory. Persons travelling to these areas should therefore be in possession of a valid certificate of inoculation against yellow fever. The certificate is not valid until 10 days after the date of inoculation and remains valid until four years from the date of inoculation.

Human trypanosomiasis is endemic in parts of the territory and surveys are being carried on in order to map out its limits more accurately. The disease is not found in the settled areas. Relapsing fever (transmitted by ticks) is common among natives but there is little danger of its being contracted by Europeans if reasonable precautions are taken.

The Government Medical and Health Services are under the control and direction of the Director of Medical Services whose administrative headquarters is at Lusaka. The Territory is divided into six provinces in each of which public health work is under the supervision of the Provincial Medical Officer. In the mine townships the duties of Medical Officer of Health are performed by members of the medical staff of the mining companies. Elsewhere the Provincial Medical Officer or a Government Medical Officer is the Medical Officer of Health and is in charge of general public health and anti-malarial work.

The principal towns have protected purified piped water supplies for the whole or part of the township. Smaller towns have wells or bore-hole supplies.
The total actual Health Department expenditure for 1949 was £475,312 and the total estimated Health Department expenditure for 1950 is £536,414.

**Hospitals.**—The following hospitals are provided in the Territory:

- **European Hospitals**
  - 8 Government, maximum capacity 310
  - 4 Mining company 220

- **African Hospitals**
  - 14 Government 1,667
  - 9 Mission hospitals 513
  - 4 Mining company 758

There is a training school at Lusaka for African male medical personnel. African female nurses are trained at the Salvation Army Mission Hospital at Cikankata which is assisted by a Government grant for this work. It is also proposed to train African women at the Livingstone African Hospital. In addition the mining companies and certain missions train male and female African medical personnel in their hospitals.

**Silicosis.**—The new Silicosis Medical Bureau building was opened on 3rd March, 1950, and this has enabled a great expansion of the work of the Bureau to take place.

**Dental Services.**—Government accepts the charges for treatment by private practitioners in respect of European school children who are recommended by the Schools Medical Officer for dental treatment at the time the medical inspection of the schools is carried out. This arrangement applies to towns where private dental practitioners are available. At other places, treatment is given by the schools' Dental Officer of the European Education Department, that is, in the smaller line of rail centres and out-stations where there is no private dentist.

The major items in the programme for development of medical and health services are consolidation and improvement of existing services, including the modernisation of various hospitals in the territory; the development of the rural dispensaries system, the extension of the medical education of Africans and, in particular, the education of African girls as nurses and midwives; the institution of schemes for specific purposes such as the prevention and treatment of leprosy, tuberculosis and sleeping sickness; and general improvements of social and hygienic conditions in both rural and suburban areas.

**Labour**

The estimated number of persons in employment in heavy industries in the Territory in 1949 was 9,029 Europeans and 65,530 Africans. A further 1,600 Europeans and 83,000 Africans (estimated) were engaged in other forms of employment in the Territory.

In the principal industry in the country—copper mining—average monthly wages exclusive of bonuses and overtime, etc., for Europeans were £62 surface, and £74 underground; and for Africans 54s. 6d. surface, and 64s. 9d. underground. To these earnings must be added the value of sub-economic rents of housing, etc., enjoyed by Europeans and free housing and food provided for Africans.

Wage rates in other industries and occupations continued to rise during the year, but so did the cost of living. The index stood at 150 at the end of the year (1939 = 100.)

There were no major stoppages of work during the year, except at the Broken Hill Mine where 18 European miners and timbermen struck for improved bonus payments. The strike lasted 11 days and was finally settled by conciliation.

In the copper mining industry the Northern Rhodesia Mine Workers' Union and the African Mine Workers' Union requested the Mining companies to accept the principles of the 40-hour week. Agreement by direct negotiation between the Northern Rhodesia Mine Workers' Union and the Mine Managers failed and the matter was referred to conciliation. Conciliation failed and the dispute has been referred to a Board of Enquiry under the terms of the Industrial Conciliation Ordinance.

In a claim by the African Mine Workers' Union for substantial increase in pay, conciliation proceedings resulted in an increase in basic wages for all grades of workmen except those at the maximum of their grades, and an offer for the payment of an inclusive wage to cover housing and food for workers in the highest grades plus the provision of improved houses which can be rented at option.

The growth of African trade unionism has continued. At the beginning of the year the unions at the four Copper Mines amalgamated to form the Northern Rhodesia African Mine Workers' Trade Union.

An Association of Domestic Servants was formed during the year in one town on the Copperbelt but did not appear to have much support from the domestics.

The Associated Chambers of Commerce was expanded to include industry with the title "The Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of Northern Rhodesia", thus providing a strong organisation for negotiations on the employers side.

It is estimated that some 25,000 Africans are now represented through trade unions.

Important legislation passed during the year consisted of a Trade Union and Trades Disputes Ordinance and an Industrial Conciliation Ordinance. Under this legislation the Registration of Trade Unions is voluntary but every trade union must notify the Registrar within a month of its formation.

The African Migrant Workers Ordinance, which came into effect on 1st January, 1949, provides amongst other matters for the compulsory family remittances by Northern Rhodesia Africans in employment in Southern Rhodesia or Nyasaland whose families remain in the Territory and also for compulsory deferred pay which is payable in the home Territory.

During the year all matters relating to industrial relations, labour inspections, industrial safety, health and welfare, whether for Europeans, Africans or Asians, became, for the first time, the responsibility of the Department of Labour and Mines. The four main branches of the now combined Department are Labour, Mines, Apprenticeship and Workmen's Compensation.

The list of trades scheduled under the Apprenticeship Ordinance was extended and now applies to certain scheduled trades in the mining industry, railway undertaking, the automobile and engineering industries and also the Government mechanical workshops at Lusaka.

The staff of the Labour Department was increased to 16 officers in the field and one new Branch of the Department was opened.
The Workmen's Compensation Ordinance applies in cases of disablement due to injuries by accidents arising out of and in the course of employment, including certain scheduled occupational diseases and other diseases when the contracting of them may be classed as accidents. For the purposes of the ordinance a workman is, with certain exceptions, an employee whose earnings do not exceed £950 per annum. Silicosis is not included as an occupational disease, but is specially provided for by the Silicosis (Temporary Arrangements) Ordinance.

Both ordinances provide for compensation to all races of workmen, and a notable feature of each is the control exercised; in workmen's compensation this is by a commissioner, and in the case of silicosis by a Compensation Board. The ordinances have continued to operate with the minimum of disagreement and with no litigation.

Welfare

European welfare matters are catered for by branches of the Women's Institute of Northern Rhodesia and by patriotic and charitable bodies.

A Central Charities Committee exists and a Territorial Council for Child Welfare is in process of formation. In urban areas most local authorities and large employers of labour employ both European and African welfare officers, whose duties include the organisation of football and other sports, handicrafts of all kinds, libraries, cinematograph shows, etc.

Communications

Railways

The railway was extended from Victoria Falls northward to Broken Hill—374 miles—in 1906, and the extension to the border of Northern Rhodesia, a further 132 miles, where it connects with the railway system of the Congo Belge, was completed in 1909. The Zambezi is crossed by a single span bridge, 650 feet long, 30 feet wide and about 420 feet high. The gauge of the railway is 3 feet 6 inches, the standard gauge of South Africa.

Branch lines have now been constructed from Ndola to Luanshya (Roan Antelope Mine), a distance of 24 miles, to Chingola (Nchanga Mine) via Nkana, a distance of 82 miles, and from Chambesi on the Ndola-Chingola line, to Mufulira, a distance of about 21 miles. Another line runs from Mokambo in the Belgian Congo to Mufulira, 9 miles distant.

Roads

Road communications have been improved and further improvements are being undertaken. The arterial road system has been provided with a large number of permanent bridges and culverts and a programme to complete this work is in hand. The main arterial roads are:

(i) The Great North Road from the Otto Beit Bridge over the Zambezi River at Chirundu on the Southern Rhodesia border via Kafue, where the road joins the railway line, Lusaka, Broken Hill and Kapiri Mposhi, where the road leaves the railway line to Mpika, Isoka, and Tunduma where the road joins the Tanganyika and Nyasaland road systems. The length of the Great North Road is 750 miles. From Mpika there is a road to Abercorn and Mpulungu Harbour on Lake Tanganyika via Kasama, a distance of 270 miles and from Abercorn there is a connection to Tunduma, a distance of 114 miles. The section of the Great North Road between Chirundu and Broken Hill is to be provided with a bituminous surface and work was completed between Lusaka and Kafue in 1949. The Kafue River is crossed by a bridge near Nkana presented to the territory by the Beit Trust. The steelwork of this bridge once formed part of a wartime emergency bridge over the River Thames in London.

(ii) The Livingstone-Kafue road from Livingstone follows the railway line northwards until it meets the Great North Road at Kafue River, a distance of 276 miles.

(iii) The Great East Road runs from Lusaka eastwards to Fort Jameson and the Nyasaland border, a distance of 400 miles. This road crosses the Luangwa River at 157 miles from Lusaka by an imposing bridge presented to the territory by the Beit Trust.

(iv) The Congo Border road which branches from the Great North Road 3 miles north of Kapiri Mposhi proceeds north to the copper mining area and from there on to Solwezi and Mwinilunga, a distance of 498 miles. From Solwezi there is a road southwards to Kasempa and Mumbwa then running eastwards to join the Great North Road 45 miles north of Lusaka.

From Kasempa a road 229 miles in length runs westwards to Balovale.

A new road 122 miles in length from Mufulira across the pedicle of the Congo to Fort Rosebery and the Northern Province was opened in 1947. A main road 220 miles in length connects Fort Rosebery with Kasama.

In the copper mining area bituminous-surfaced roads are provided between Ndola, Luanshya and Nkana, and Mufulira. Nkana and Chingola are connected by a similar road. The Mufulira-Ndola road will receive a bituminous surface by the end of 1952.

In addition to the above main roads there is a large mileage of secondary roads serving the settled areas and districts.

Rivers

The Zambezi, Kafue, Luapula, and Chambezi Rivers are navigable for small boats for a considerable portion of their courses, and where necessary for motor traffic these and other rivers may be crossed by pontoons.

Aviation

The corridor route through the territory follows the track joining the four main control aerodromes of Kasama, Ndola, Lusaka, Livingstone, where immigration, custom and sanitary control facilities are established, and where aeradio communication facilities are installed and operated. Six of the eleven secondary aerodromes are connected with these main aerodromes by internal scheduled services operated by Central African Airways Corporation.

Routes are as follows:

(a) Internal

(i) Lusaka–Fort Jameson.
(ii) Lusaka–Livingstone.
(iii) Lusaka–Mankoya–Mongu–Kalabo–Balovale–Livingstone.
(iv) Ndola–Kasama–Abercorn–Mbeya.
(b) External
(i) Salisbury – Lusaka – Ndola – Tabora – Nairobi.
(ii) Salisbury–Lusaka–Ndola.
(iii) Salisbury–Lusaka–Ndola–Elisabethville.

(c) Two aircraft charter companies are licensed in Northern Rhodesia: Messrs. Northern Rhodesia Aviation Services, Ltd., and Messrs. Zambesi Airways, Ltd., who provide charter facilities and freight at fares varying between 1s. 0d. and 3s. 0d. per mile, to any of the 41 aerodromes or landing grounds established in the territory.

Detailed information concerning civil aviation in Northern Rhodesia is incorporated in the "Air Pilot of Northern Rhodesia" issued on 1st December, 1949. This publication is available from the Director of Civil Aviation or the Government Printer, Northern Rhodesia.

Posts, Telegraphs and Wireless

There is a daily service by rail between post offices on the line of rail. Offices off the line of rail receive and despatch mails at least once a week. First class mail matter for Fort Jameson and places in the Northern Province and certain offices in Baroteland is conveyed by air. Other cross posts are by motor vehicle or carriers. Mail to and from adjoining countries are despatched by all passenger trains and Central African Airways convey surcharged airmail despatches at frequent intervals.

Airmails for overseas countries are forwarded by South African Airways (Springbok Service) twice a week, connection with the main service being made at Nairobi by Central African Airways feeder services. Seaborne mails are forwarded via Capetown once a week.

There are 59 post offices, 15 of which are money order offices and 45 are telegraph offices. The main telegraph and telephone route lies alongside the railway line from the Victoria Falls to the Belgian Congo border, with branches from Ndola to Luanshya and Ndola to Kitwe, Chingola and Mufulira.

Wireless stations at Abercorn, Balovale, Brokenhill, Chinsali, Fort Jameson, Fort Rosebery, Isoka, Kasama, Kasempa, Kawambwa, Livingstone, Lundazi, Mongu, Mpika, Mporokoso, Namwala, Ndola, Petauke, Ridgeway (Lusaka), Senanga, Serenje, Sesheke, Solwezi and Shiwangandu maintain a public service.

Public Finance

| Year | Revenue | Expenditure |
|------|---------|-------------|
| 1940 | £2,245,084 | £1,926,037 (b) |
| 1941 | £2,979,613 | £2,161,365 (c) |
| 1942 | £3,072,511 | £1,779,972 |
| 1943 | £3,274,177 | £2,157,033 (d) |
| 1944 | £3,338,612 | £2,363,827 (e) |
| 1945 | £3,433,507 | £2,543,370 |
| 1946 | £3,362,140 | £2,898,788 |
| 1947 | £4,439,730 | £4,534,132 (f) |
| 1948 | £6,715,517 | £6,208,455 |
| 1949 | £10,583,863 | £10,600,457 |
| 1950 | £10,484,714 | £10,182,055 (g) |

(b) Excludes £100,000 transferred to reserve.
(c) Excludes £250,000 transferred to reserve.
(d) Excludes £500,000 transferred to reserve.
(e) Excludes £1,000,000 transferred to reserve.
(f) Includes £94,402 appropriated from General Revenue Balance.
(g) Estimated figures.

Loan expenditure for development purposes amounted to £985,533 in 1948. The estimated loan expenditure for development purposes in 1949 is £2,696,266, and the total to the end of 1948 was £1,375,294.

Revenue

The main sources of revenue are:
(i) Taxation.
(ii) Customs duties.

(i) An income tax was first imposed in Northern Rhodesia in 1921. The rates of tax now in force are:

Individuals:

The following deductions are allowed from the total income in arriving at the chargeable income:

(a) Personal deduction:
For unmarried persons .. £250.
For married persons .. £500.

(b) Deduction for children:
For each child .. £120.

(c) Deduction for dependants:
The amount expended, limited to the amount by which the income of the dependant falls short of £250 with a maximum of £100 for each dependant. Where there are two or more persons jointly maintaining the dependant the deduction is apportioned between them.

(d) Life, Accident and Sickness Insurance:
The annual premium paid, not exceeding one-sixth of the total income less £250, with a maximum deduction of £120.

(e) Widowers, or others similarly situated who have custody of and who support their children, receive the allowances and are taxed at the rates applicable to married persons.

Rates of Tax

Married persons:

For every £1 of the first £250 of chargeable income, 1s. in £.
For every £1 of the next £250, 1s. 6d. in £.
For every £1 of the next £250, 2s. in £.
For every £1 of the next £250, 3s. in £.
For every £1 of the next £250, 4s. in £.
For every £1 of the next £250, 5s. in £.
For every £1 of the next £500, 6s. in £.
For every £1 of the next £500, 7s. in £.
For every £1 in excess of £2,500, 7s. 6d. in £.

Unmarried persons:

For every £1 of the first £500 of chargeable income, 2s. in £.
For every £1 of the next £250, 3s. in £.
For every £1 of the next £250, 4s. in £.
For every £1 of the next £250, 5s. in £.
For every £1 of the next £250, 6s. in £.
For every £1 of the next £250, 7s. in £.
For every £1 in excess of £1,750, 7s. 6d. in £.

Companies:

The company rate of tax is 7s. 6d. in £.

(ii) Customs Revenue has been increasing steadily and is expected to exceed £1,500,000 in 1950.

The Customs Tariff of Northern Rhodesia, which has remained substantially unchanged since 1938, provides for two rates of duty, (i)
general rates and (ii) Empire preferential and Congo Basin rates. This position arises from the fact that approximately one-third of Northern Rhodesia (the North-Eastern portion) lies within the conventional boundaries of the Congo Basin, and, being subject to the Congo Basin Treaties under which the granting of preferential treatment to goods from any particular country is prohibited, goods of both Empire and foreign origin are admitted to this area at the lower or preferential rates. The Congo Basin area falls outside the scope of the Customs agreements between Northern Rhodesia and the Union of South Africa or Southern Rhodesia.

The Northern Rhodesia tariff provides for specific rates of duty on practically all foodstuffs and on beer, potable spirits, tobacco, cement, coal and coke, candles, lubricating oils, paraffin, tyres and tubes, matches and blasting compounds. Other articles are subject to ad valorem duties on an f.o.b. value basis or are admitted duty free.

The Customs agreements concluded with the Union of South Africa (1930) and Southern Rhodesia (1933) have, in the main, remained unchanged. They provide for inter-Government transfers of Customs duties in respect of goods imported into one territory and subsequently removed to the other. Goods of local production or manufacture, with the exception of certain articles which are subject to customs duty at specially rebated rates, are interchanged without restriction and inter-Government payments on an ad valorem basis are made.

Expenditure

The main heads of expenditure during 1949 were:

| Expenditure Head                  | £       |
|-----------------------------------|---------|
| Public Works Extraordinary        | 463,135 |
| Public Works Recurrent            | 430,255 |
| Health                            | 893,390 |
| Development and Welfare           | 421,882 |
| Maize Subsidy                     | 772,188 |
| European Education                | 881,199 |
| African Education                 | 223,312 |
|                                   |         |
| Total                             | 614,460 |

The main heads of expenditure during 1950 were:

| Expenditure Head                  | £       |
|-----------------------------------|---------|
| Public Works Extraordinary        | 584,650*|
| Public Works Recurrent            | 513,319*|
| Health                            | 1,097,969*|
| Development and Welfare           | 536,414*|
| Maize Subsidy                     | 2,285,832*|
| European Education                | 725,000*|
| African Education                 | 317,680*|
|                                   | 445,002*|
|                                   | 762,682*|

* Estimated.

Public Debt

The public debt as at 31st December, 1949, was as follows:

| Loan Type             | £       | s. d. |
|-----------------------|---------|------|
| 5 per cent. Loan      | 582,500 | 0 0 0|
| 3½ per cent. Loan     | 1,097,000| 0 0 0|
| 3 per cent. Loan      | 3,540,000| 0 0 0|
| Total                 | 5,219,000| 0 0 0|

Sinking Funds

Balance at 31st December, 1949

| Loan Type             | £       | s. d. |
|-----------------------|---------|------|
| 5 per cent. Loan      | 289,658 | 4 6 |
| 3½ per cent. Loan     | 273,512 | 1 5 |
| Total                 | 563,170 | 5 11 |

The Sinking Fund for the 5 per cent. Loan was utilised on 15th January, 1950, towards the redemption of that loan, the balance being converted.

The Sinking Fund half-yearly payments for the 3½ per cent. loan are estimated to be sufficient to redeem that loan in full in 1970.

3 per cent. Northern Rhodesia Government War Bonds

£167,170

These Bonds were issued in units of £5 or multiples of £ at 3 per cent. redeemable 10 years from date of purchase at £101 per cent., but may be cashed at par plus accrued interest on giving six months' notice. Interest is payable half-yearly.

War Savings Certificates

£154,561

These certificates were issued at the price of 15s. having a face value of £1 0s. 6d. after ten years. Certificates may be surrendered and payments obtained with accrued interest at any time prior to the expiration of the period of currency.

The sale of War Savings Certificates was discontinued on the 31st of March, 1947, and of War Bonds on the 11th of October, 1946.

Banking and Currency

There are branches of the Standard Bank of South Africa, Ltd., at Livingstone, Lusaka, Broken Hill, Ndola, Kitwe, Luanshya, Mufulira and Mazabuka, an agency at Chingola, and branches of Barclays Bank (Dominion, Colonial and Overseas) at Lusaka, Livingstone, Broken Hill, Fort Jameson, Ndola, Kitwe, Luanshya and Mufulira, and an agency at Chingola.

New branches of Standard Bank and Barclays have now been established at Choma.

The currency of Northern Rhodesia is that of Southern Rhodesia. United Kingdom coin is also legal tender, but is being withdrawn. South African currency is not legal tender.

Trade and Industry

Agriculture

The total cattle population in 1949 was 878,599 an increase of 9% over the 1948 total. European owned cattle were 145,166 an increase of 9·3% on the previous year, while native owned cattle increased by 8·7% to 733,433—a satisfactory increase.

Again there have been no major outbreaks of disease and in spite of bad rains there was no abnormal mortality. The value of the Kafue Flats during such dry seasons cannot be overestimated as they carried nearly a quarter of a million head of cattle from midwinter onwards.

Barotseland continues to supply cattle for slaughter to the Livingstone Cold Storage Works and the Angola-Barotse-Balovale cordon is established.

Controlled maximum prices for cattle were increased in June causing a sharp revival of interest in beef production.

The greater portion of the territory is undeveloped agriculturally. The indigenous population is self-supporting in its food supply, nearly the whole of its requirements being produced in the village gardens. There is little general trade in food commodities except in the railway belt where the surplus native maize crop is marketed by the Maize Control Board. The staple native cereals...
are finger millet (*Eleusine coracana*), Kaffir corn (*Sorghum*) and maize. The former is produced over extensive tracts of the territory on a system of shifting cultivation whereby grain crops are grown in rotation with forest re-growths. Other native crops are bullrush millet (*Pennisetum typhoideum*), groundnuts, cassava, sweet potatoes and a variety of pumpkins, gourds and beans.

Tobacco is widely cultivated by the natives but mainly on a small scale for private consumption although there is a flourishing Burley tobacco industry at Petauke in the Eastern Province which last season produced 166,000 lb. of tobacco. The industry is now organised on co-operative lines.

Considerable numbers of cattle are owned by natives in the territory but these are mainly confined to certain tribes, notably the Malozi, Baila, Batoka and to a less extent, the Angoni in north-eastern Rhodesia.

Many parts of the territory are impassable to animal transport owing to the presence of *tsetse* fly.

In the tracts adjoining the railway line considerable areas are given over to farming and ranching operations under European management.

Maize and tobacco are the chief crops of the settler. In the season 1948/49 the total maize production by European farmers and Africans for sale was 344,000 bags.

The drought in the early part of the season adversely affected the maize yield and, although there was an increased acreage over last year, the production was well below the 1947/48 figures.

The increased acreage was partly due to the improved position as regards the supply of tractors.

Wheat is grown under irrigation and is at present exported to Bulawayo for milling. Some 27,000 bags were grown in 1946, 5,000 bags in 1947, and 9,000 bags in 1948. Wheat growing is becoming less popular with farmers. Production dropped to 1,470 bags in 1949.

Although an early drought made planting difficult the season was a good one for tobacco. The Eastern area crop reached a record figure of 4,076,290 lb. while in the Western area the production was 1,675,533 lb.

Turkish tobacco production is a recent development. It is grown mainly in the railway belt but there was marked recession in production, 1,000,000 lb. being produced in 1947 and approximately 600,000 lb. in 1948. The Turkish tobacco production in 1949 was only 97,000 lb.

The Headquarters of the Department of Agriculture are at Lusaka.

**Forestry**

More than one half of the area of the Protectorate is covered by tree growth, mostly in the form of open woodland. Apart from a minute fraction of evergreen fringing forest along river banks, it is estimated that only 7 per cent. (21,000 square miles) of the woodland is capable of yielding saw timber, with yields that range between 50 and 500 cubic feet per acre.

The amount of privately owned forest is negligible in total area, but rights of mining and private use cover some of the best and most strategically placed forests on the Copper-belt. The Forests Ordinance, 1941, and subsidiary regulations provide for the control and protection of forest growth on Crown Lands, and grant considerable latitude in the free use of forest produce to local inhabitants. In Native Reserves more restricted powers of control are contained in certain sections of the Native Reserves Regulations. The Barotse Native Government and a few other smaller Native Authorities have adopted orders that provide additional local protection.

1,856 square miles have been declared as Forest Reserves and Protected Forest Areas.

The *Baikiaea plurijuga* (Rhodesian "Teak") forests support at Livingstone the largest saw-milling industry in Central Africa: the present rate of cutting in Northern Rhodesia (2·2 million cubic feet of logs per annum, most of which are converted to railway sleepers) is resulting in exhaustion of these forests. The mining companies cut in 1948 a further 1,125,400 cubic feet of local timber (mainly *Brachystegia* and *Isoberlinia* species), and another 480,000 cubic feet was cut in the territory for minor industries. Other recorded consumption in 1948 included 550,500 poles and 526,000 cords of firewood.

In 1948 coal supplies to the mining industry fell far short of requirements owing to lack of rolling stock on the railways. Wood fuel cut in the woodlands surrounding the mines was used on a very large scale: 430,000 cords were consumed (approximately 645,000 tons). Very considerable quantities of firewood, poles and timber are used by the rural African population for domestic purposes, but it is impossible to estimate this consumption: in general this demand is so dispersed that only in a few localities does it represent a marked drain on the forests. Much more destructive are the shifting cultivation systems of agriculture that are traditional over most of the territory, and for which it is often difficult to find sounder and more stable alternatives.

A scarcity of trees exists in some of the flood-plain regions of Bangweulu, the upper Zambezi and the middle Kafue. As there are no coniferous forests in Northern Rhodesia and softwoods have to be imported for many industrial purposes, a programme of planting sub-tropical species of pines has been started on the Copperbelt, where initial trials with these trees have given promising results.

A Forestry Branch had existed as part of the Department of Agriculture since 1929, but was given separate departmental status at the beginning of 1947. It commenced its career with a regular staff of 4 professional and 5 technical European Officers and 108 Africans and a variable force of casual labour. At the end of 1948 this staff had increased to 10 professional, 15 technical and 3 clerical European officers and a permanent staff of 189 Africans, besides casual labour.

**Land Settlement**

Crown land is now granted only on lease, normally for terms of 999 years in the case of farms, and 99 years in the case of plots in townships and residential smallholdings. In special circumstances, leases are granted for shorter periods. A Land Board, with headquarters in Lusaka, considers all applications for agricultural land as well as for loans. Approved loans are administered by the Board.

Crown land suitable for mixed farming, ranching, and tobacco-growing is available within easy reach of the railway, though good mixed farming land is now becoming scarce. All farms are unimproved and valuations range from 6s. to 30s. per acre. Some privately-owned freehold
farms are in the market at prices ranging from £2 to £10 or more per acre according to the degree of development. A settler must be in possession of at least £3,000 capital in order to obtain a grant of a leasehold farm from Government. Special travelling facilities are given to bona fide farm settlers and their wives and families proceeding to Northern Rhodesia for the first time to take up land, and special local railway rates are in force for their benefit. Applications for Crown land in Northern Rhodesia should be addressed to the Director of Surveys and Land, Livingstone.

Minerals

The Department of Mines administers the Mining Ordinance, the Mining and Explosives Regulations, the Mining (Silicosis Prevention) Regulations, the Winding Engine Driver's (Certificate of Competency) Regulations, and the Factories Ordinance and Factories (Safety) Regulations. The Registration of mining titles is carried out by the Registrar of Titles in the Department of Surveys and Land.

The copper produced in the territory in 1949 totalled 259,108 tons, valued at £31,625,221 as against 213,818 tons valued at £25,864,039 in 1948. The production of the various copper mines in 1949 was:—Mufulira, 84,630 tons of blister copper; Nchanga, 37,586 tons of blister copper and 296 tons of copper concentrates which were sold as concentrates; Nkana, 13,859 tons of blister copper, 64,413 tons of electrolytic copper and 27 tons of copper other; Roan Antelope, 58,593 tons of blister copper. As a by-product Nkana also produced 27,124 cwts. of cobalt alloy and 972 ozs. of gold, 134,920 ozs. of silver and 20,958 lbs. of selenium, which were recovered from refinery slimes.

Lead, zinc and vanadium are produced at Broken Hill.

Some of the lead produced is fabricated at the mine into pipes and sheets for use in the metallurgical plant. Iron ore and manganese ore are mined and used as reagents in the production of lead and zinc. The value of the major products from Broken Hill during 1949 is lead, £1,403,835; zinc, £1,972,456; and vanadium, £181,512.

Other mineral activities are on a small scale.

The mineral production for the years 1948 and 1949 was:

| Year | Imports | Exports |
|------|---------|---------|
| 1939 | £4,535,097 | £10,220,182 |
| 1940 | £5,179,914 | £13,028,383 |
| 1941 | £5,639,203 | £10,936,858 |
| 1942 | £5,355,306 | £12,747,399 |
| 1943 | £5,965,463 | £13,965,208 |
| 1944 | £6,697,277 | £12,167,352 |
| 1945 | £6,909,284 | £11,663,453 |
| 1946 | £7,934,939 | £13,124,942 |
| 1947 | £10,193,201 | £21,239,011 |
| 1948 | £10,321,320 | £21,229,759 |
| 1949 | £15,603,871 | £28,159,545 |

Customs Duties

The tariff, excluding the Congo Basin tariff, provides for Empire preference for the following classes of goods which are mainly liable to ad valorem rates of duty; clothing, blankets and rugs, cotton piece goods, motor cars, and all articles usually imported for household and native use, the duty on Empire products being in almost every instance 10 per cent. and the duty on foreign varying from 15 to 30 per cent.; in the case of cotton and silk piece goods, shirts, singlets, and rubber shoes, from foreign countries, the tariff provides for additional or alternative specific rates if the duty should be greater at such rates. Agricultural, electrical, mining and other industrial machinery, pipes and piping, metals and metal manufactures imported for industrial purposes, if of Empire manufacture are free of duty and if foreign are subject to an ad valorem duty of 5 per cent., except foreign electrical machinery which is 10 per cent.

Specific rates of duty apply to practically all imported foodstuffs, lubricating oils, paraffin and cement, and to spirits, wines, beer and tobacco; upon the latter items, apart from rum, bitters, beer and cigars, no preference is granted except under the terms of the customs agreements with the neighbouring territories in the south, but varying rates of preference are granted, under the tariff, to foodstuffs of British origin.

Imports and Exports

| Year | Imports | Exports |
|------|---------|---------|
| 1900 | R. E. Codrington. |
| 1907 | Sir L. A. Wallace, K.B.E., C.M.G. |
| 1909 | Sir L. P. Beaufort, Kt. (acting). |
| 1900 | Sir R. T. Coryndon, K.C.M.G |
| 1907 | R. E. Codrington. |
| 1907 | Sir L. A. Wallace, K.B.E., C.M.G. (acting). |
| 1911 | Sir Lawrence Wallace, K.B.E., C.M.G. |
| 1921 | Sir Drummond Chaplin, G.B.E., K.C.M.G. |
| 1923 | Sir Richard Goode, K.C.M.G., C.B.E. (acting.) |
| 1924 | Sir Herbert J. Stanley, G.C.M.G. |
| 1927 | Sir James Crawford Maxwell, K.C.M.G., K.B.E., M.D. |
| 1932 | Colonel Sir Ronald Storrs, K.C.M.G., C.B.E. |
| 1934 | Major Sir H. W. Young, K.C.M.G., D.S.O. |
| 1938 | Sir J. A. Maybin, K.C.M.G. |
| 1941 | Sir E. J. Waddington, G.B.E., K.C.M.G., K.C.V.O. |
| 1948 | Sir Gilbert McCall Rennie, K.C.M.G., M.C. |

The minerals produced during 1948 were valued at £29,771,862 and those produced during 1949 were valued at £35,946,791.
EXECUTIVE COUNCIL

The Governor.
The Chief Secretary.
The Attorney-General.
The Financial Secretary.
The Secretary for Native Affairs.
The Administrative Secretary.
The Economic Secretary.
F. Crawford, O.B.E. (Director of Development),
Lieut.-Col. Sir Stewart Gore-Browne, D.S.O.,
J.P., M.L.C.
R. Welensky, C.M.G., J.P., M.L.C.
G. B. Beckett, M.L.C.
Lieut.-Col. E. M. Wilson, M.B.E., J.P., M.L.C.
Clerk of the Council—R. Craufurd-Benson.

LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL

Speaker—T. S. Page, C.B.E., J.P.

Ex-Officio Members

The Chief Secretary.
The Attorney-General.
The Financial Secretary.
The Secretary for Native Affairs.
The Administrative Secretary.
The Economic Secretary.

Nominated Official Members

F. Crawford, O.B.E.
P. B. Robinson, M.B., B.Ch.
C. E. Cousins.

Nominated Unofficial Members

Lieut.-Col. Sir Stewart Gore-Browne, D.S.O., J.P.
(Native Interests).
The Rev. E. G. Nightingale (Native Interests).

Elected Unofficial Members

R. Welensky, C.M.G., J.P. (Broken Hill).
J. F. Morris (Mufulira-Chingola).
G. B. Beckett (South-Western).
E. W. Sergeant (Lucaka).
A. A. Davies, J.P. (Luanshya).
G. W. R. L'Ange, M.B.E. (Nkana).
H. J. Millar, J.P. (Livingstone).
F. B. Robertson, M.C., J.P. (North-Eastern).
G. F. M. van Eeden (Midland).
Lieut.-Col. E. M. Wilson, M.B.E., J.P. (Ndola).

African Members

The Rev. H. Kasokolo.
N. Nalumango.

Clerk of the Council—R. Craufurd-Benson.

Elected Unofficial Members in charge of Departments—

G. B. Beckett, Member for Agriculture and Natural Resources;
Lt.-Col. E. M. Wilson, M.B.E., J.P., Member for Health and Local Government.

FOREIGN CONSULAR OFFICERS

Belgium—Mr. H. C. Paice (Hon. Vice-Consul, Ndola); Mr. Harry Rich, O.B.E., J.P. (Hon. Vice-Consul, Lusaka).

Norway—Mr. T. E. Jager, O.B.E. (Hon. Vice-Consul, Livingstone).

SHORT SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY

The Making of Rhodesia, by H. M. Hole. Macmillan, 1926, 18s.
A Short History of Rhodesia and Her Neighbours, by T. G. Standing. Longmans, 1935, 3s.
Land, Labour and Diet in Northern Rhodesia, by A. Richards. Int. Inst. of African Languages, 1939.

Diary of a District Officer, by K. G. Bradley, C.M.G. Harrap, 1943.
Economy of the Central Barotse Plain, by Max Gluckman.
Bemba Marriage and Present Economic Conditions, by Audrey I. Richards.
An Essay on the Economics of Detribalization in Northern Rhodesia, Parts I and II, by Godfrey Wilson.
Human Problems in British Central Africa. Rhodes-Livingstone Journal Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8. (Editors: Max Gluckman and J. M. Winterbottom).
The Northern Rhodesia Legislative Council, by J. W. Davidson. (Edited by Margery Perham.)

CIVIL ESTABLISHMENT

GOVERNOR AND PERSONAL STAFF

Governor and Commander-in-Chief—Sir Gilbert McCall Rennie, K.C.M.G., M.C. £4,000, plus £1,500 duty allowance.
Private Secretary—A. C. North (acting). £690.
Aide-de-Camp—Capt. T. V. Barbour. £600.

ADMINISTRATION

Secretariat

Chief Secretary—R. C. S. Stanley, C.M.G., O.B.E. £2,200.
Financial Secretary—G. E. Thornton, C.M.G., M.B.E. £1,950.
Secretary for Native Affairs—R. P. Bush, O.B.E. £1,950.
Administrative Secretary—A. T. Williams, C.M.G., M.B.E. £1,950.
Director of Development—F. Crawford, O.B.E. £1,950.
Economic Secretary—R. A. Nicholson. £1,950.
Provincial Commissioner (seconded)—W. F. Stubbs, O.B.E. £1,700.
Chief Establishment Officer—W. G. N. Lightfoot, O.B.E. £1,700.
Deputy Financial Secretary—J. O. Talbot-Phipps. £1,550.
Assistant Chief Secretaries—A. G. K. Johnston; Comdr. C. A. R. Charnaud, R.N. (Retd.); J. G. Phillips; H. L. Jones; H. A. N. Barlow, O.B.E.; S. R. Denny; J. A. Evetts (acting); D. B. Hall (acting); H. Mcl. McDowell (acting); N. C. A. Ridley (acting). £1,450.
Native Courts Adviser—R. L. Moffat. £1,450.
Clerk of Council—K. J. Knaaggs (acting). £550–1,320.
Establishment Officer—P. F. Barrett (acting). £1,005–1,320.
Section Officers (seconded)—A. C. Jamieson; S. A. Fox; C. G. C. Rawlins, D.F.C.; R. D. McM. Williams; D. B. Roberts; M. S. Wagner, M.B.E. £550–1,320. P. T. Logan; Maj. R. T. Hungerford; Maj. H. L. Steed; J. H. Jolliffe; Maj. P. M. Chetwynd-Palmer, M.C.; Lieut.-Col. J. M. Lind; H. R. P. Bennewith. £670–1,000.
Assistant to Clerk of Councils—D. W. Humphrey (acting). £870–1,000.
Assistant Establishment Officers—A. Wilson; P. R. W. Fuller; R. C. Hewitt; F. H. W. Bourton; A. C. Myers. £670–£1,000.
Office Superintendent—J. E. Coombes. £670–1,000.
Women Administrative Assistants—Miss I. Wilkie; Miss K. M. Evett; Miss E. Nash.
Development

Commissioner for Native Development—J. S. Moffat, O.B.E. £1,700.

Assistant to Secretary, Development Authority—H. C. Ballingall. £1,005–1,140.

Provincial Administration

Senior Provincial Commissioner—L. F. Leveredge. £1,850.

Provincial Commissioners—G. Howe; W. F. Stubbs, O.B.E.; A. F. B. Glennie; G. E. F. Smith; Comdr. T. S. L. Fox-Pitt, O.B.E., R.N. (Retd.); J. P. Murray. £1,700.

Senior District Officers—F. B. Macrae; F. R. G. Phillips; M. G. Billing; N. S. Price, O.B.E.; D. B. Hall.

District Officers and Cadets—G. R. Oliver; S. D. Facey; H. Vaux; H. B. Waugh; B. E. Crawford; W. G. Reeves; O. S. Wallace; W. V. Brelsford; G. C. R. Clay; M. Mitchell-Heggs; J. F. Passmore; G. S. Jones, M.B.E.; J. B. W. Anderson; F. M. Thomas; P. D. Thomas; R. Craufurd-Benson; G. E. Curtis; N. C. A. Ridley; J. A. Evetts; G. C. M. Heathcote; R. S. Foster; A. C. Jamieson; A. G. H. Gardner-Brown; A. W. Gaminara; P. J. C. Sherrard; N. S. Knight; J. J. Keigwin; D. C. Goodfellow, M.B.E.; E. L. Button; J. T. Crawford; J. E. Long; H. McI. McDowell; S. P. Bourne; F. M. N. Heath; C. M. N. White, M.B.E.; G. K. N. Trevaskis, O.B.E.; E. C. Thomson; P. G. D. Clark; G. F. Tredwell; F. H. N. Parry; J. O. Lemon; H. A. d'Avray; S. A. Fox; R. D. McM. Williams; N. R. K. Davies; C. P. A. Sharland; A. St. J. Sugg; J. Bentley; A. H. Hawker; H. T. Bayldon, M.C.; R. D. H. Rance; P. M. Corfe; P. F. Barrett; P. C. Middleton; R. W. D. Pawle; L. E. Bradbury; L. Bean, M.B.E.; J. H. C. Edmonds; H. F. Reed; F. C. Finch; D. G. Brown; P. M. Treasure; J. Rose, D.F.C.; P. G. E. Farwell; R. S. Burles; T. C. Gardner; C. E. W. Coleman, M.C.; C. N. Lawrence; M. S. Wagner, M.B.E.; A. B. Shone; E. W. Dunlop, D.F.C.; H. P. Haile; J. H. R. Davies; K. M. Chitten-den; D. G. Clough; H. H. Thomson; C. G. C. Rawlins, D.F.C.; E. C. Greenall; M. A. Andrew, M.C.; R. C. Dening; R. S. Thompson; H. H. Stewart; P. L. Molineaux; I. M. Eldridge; P. G. Bennett; R. I. Cunningham; K. J. Knaggs; R. J. N. March; J. E. H. Orr-Ewing, M.C.; K. G. Pickles; J. G. Doubleday; J. A. Dinwiddie; R. R. Stokes; W. R. Jones; F. C. Hainsworth; D. F. H. H. Frost; R. A. Henwick, D.F.C.; S. A. Symon; J. E. Blunden; E. Madocks; D. R. C. Bailey, M.C.; J. Fairhurst; J. G. Lawrance; P. A. Large; T. J. P. Wilson; R. S. P. Pinguet; I. D. S. Mackichan; F. M. B. Russell; A. Prior; W. S. Harris; A. L. Andrews; P. M. Mosse; J. C. L. Durant; A. C. North; R. A. Hill; J. H. Burges; I. G. K. Sandercock; P. E. Aldous; K. Duff-White; A. F. H. Berwick; A. J. Waddington; J. M. A. Took; R. J. Short; D. R. Acheson; K. Thomas; H. T. Going. £550–1,320.

Administrative Officers (Contract)—J. M. G. Bell; W. G. Horley; R. N. Lines, M.B.E.; A. H. Southorn, O.B.E.; H. D. H. Rance; G. E. K. Walsh. £550–1,320.

District Assistants—O. H. Heywood-Jones; J. R. Forshaw; H. W. Isaac; N. D. Hunt; M.M.; A. G. E. Tapson; K. W. Wood; J. Hallsworth; T. M. Lawman; Major A. P. Bathurst-Brown; L. D. Eyre-Wilson; L. D. Coates; P. S. Hunt; B. G. Stow; T. A. Lemon; L. C. Powell; J. B. Campbell; E. J. Seaward; Comdr. F. Y. Bethel, R.N. (Retd.); Major I. H. Wethey; H. N. Nash; T. L. G. Target; Major R. A. Perkin; Lieut. E. C. Cooper, R.N. (Retd.); D. T. Collins. £670–1,000.

ACCOUNTANT-GENERAL

Accountant-General—J. Bathurst Brown. £1,550.

Deputy Accountant-General—A. J. Austin. £1,275.

Senior Accountants—R. L. Hatchwell; F. W. Bridle. £1,005–1,140.

Accountants—R. G. Macintyre; T. B. Shaw; T. L. Bennett. £870–1,000.

Assistant Accountants—W. J. Waddell; H. M. Reabow; E. A. Teagle. £670–1,000.

ADMINISTRATOR-GENERAL

Administrator-General and Official Receiver—N. J. G. Ramsay. £760–1,320.

AGRICULTURE

Director of Agriculture—J. C. Eyre. £1,700.

Deputy Director—M. Halcrow, O.B.E. £1,450.

Chief Conservation Officer—J. N. Clothier. £1,400.

Ecologist—C. G. Trapnell, O.B.E. £900–1,320.

Senior Agricultural Officers—U. J. Moffat, O.B.E.; R. H. Fraser; C. J. M. Krige. £585–1,320.

Agricultural Officers—J. R. E. Hindson; C. E. Johnson; D. U. Peters; B. C. Wills; J. C. Yelf; R. B. Reid; R. B. Symington; J. A. Allan; J. H. Rhodes; A. T. Wilson. £585–1,320.

Soil Chemist—E. Pawson. £585–1,320.

AUDIT

Director of Audit—L. H. Pope. £1,550.

Senior Auditors—E. A. Heathcote; A. E. Lewis. £1,095–1,230.

Auditors and Assistant Auditors—K. A. L. Lane, M.B.E.; J. D. Logic, T.D.; R. M. P. Pollard. £550–1,050.

AVIATION

Director of Civil Aviation—Lt.-Col. M. J. Muspratt-Williams. £1,550.

Airport Managers—W. G. Redding, A.F.C.; F. J. Haddon; E. G. F. Salmon; G. D. Fourie. £870–1,000.

Chief Aeronautical Telecommunications Officer—G. Smith. £870–1,000.

Air Traffic Control Officers—B. J. Hyde; J. H. Williams, A.F.C.; A. S. Cooper; I. P. Fraser; R. F. Thornton. £590–865.

CIVIL SUPPLIES

Director of Civil Supplies—J. Paterson. £1,550.

Assistant to Director of Civil Supplies—L. R. Osborne, O.B.E. £1,275.

Building Controller—J. Paterson.

CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETIES

Registrar—J. L. Boyd-Wilson. £1,450.

Supervisors—J. B. W. Wilkinson, M.B.E.; R. R. Walker; J. L. Stamford-Burrows; G. R. Henry; J. F. B. de Blampied; G. Cooper; R. A. Russell; A. P. Bathurst-Brown; C. A. Clock. £670–1,000.
CUSTOMS

Comptroller of Customs—E. E. Lord. £1,625.
Deputy Comptroller—W. G. O. Owen-Smith. £1,400.

Senior Collectors—G. Owen-Smith; A. T. K. Otty. £1,005–1,140.

Collectors—P. S. Henderson; D. L. Bermant; C. W. Roberts; W. R. Buchan; G. S. Priest. £870–1,000.

EDUCATION

European

Director—T. Williams. £1,700.
Deputy Director—J. R. Chadwick. £1,450.
Inspector—T. F. Parker. £1,185–1,320.
Inspectress—Miss K. D. C. Osborne-Day. £948–1,056.

Medical Officer—Dr. (Miss) H. R. Wilson. £865–1,320.

School Dentist—Miss N. C. W. Stewart. £865–1,320.

Secretary—J. Loggie. £870–1,000.

Supervisor of Technical Education—D. O. Lindeque. £1,005–1,320.

Principals—T. C. Deacon; F. C. H. Knapp; G. T. Jones. £1,185–1,320. A. J. Gunn; R. E. Gregory; T. G. Harvey; E. C. Hobrough; C. H. E. Bardell; A. H. Green. £1,005–1,140. Miss E. F. Goring; Miss E. Gross; Miss I. R. Milne; Mrs. C. M. Boswell. £948–1,056.

Masters—J. G. Geddie; V. H. Shipman; C. J. A. Unger; A. E. Joubert; R. J. Crawford; J. B. Trew; S. Levinsohn; P. A. van Wyk; J. Hall; A. G. Keylock; W. Harrison; R. Payne; E. Dunn; T. N. Brockwell; F. L. A. W. Pitt; G. A. Dowkins; R. H. Brown; G. R. Reason; J. B. Harker; S. A. Champion; J. Sloan; C. G. T. Trueman; G. E. James; J. P. Crawford; S. J. Edwards; J. Marshall; C. J. Masters; A. E. Arro; R. E. H. Burnett; F. E. Tomlinson; W. E. Sutton; G. M. Beedie; P. J. Lyons; A. W. Hunter; G. H. A. Craig; T. J. Potter; J. E. Mallory; R. Whitwell; D. G. Nourse; P. Whitworth; W. P. Fogwell; I. Stanworth; P. Harrington-Johnson; I. Thomson; R. Scott; P. J. J. Louhsler; R. F. Britain. £550–1,000.

African

Director of African Education—J. A. Cottrell, O.B.E. £1,700.
Deputy Director—Vacant. £1,450.

Education Officers—G. H. Rusbridger; P. S. Tregear; R. J. Seal; J. O. Forester; W. C. Little; D. B. Roberts; Major W. A. R. Gorman, M.C.; E. G. Goddard; H. J. Roberts; D. B. Barker; A. E. King; C. H. Green; D. R. Martin; H. Holmes; J. P. Hetherington, T.D.; R. L. G. Cook; J. H. Bevis; M. W. Davison; M. C. Mortimer; A. D. Walder-Jones; N. J. Suckling; P. K. Stevenson; F. D. Milne; G. F. Hardcastle; G. A. Warren; W. F. Davies; G. B. Buckmaster; J. G. Seal; F. D. Maynard. £550–1,320.

Women Education Officers—Miss D. E. Cartwright; Miss C. M. Pike; Miss M. E. Hamlyn; Miss P. J. Sargent; Miss A. G. Hyslop; Miss J. Goldberg; Miss M. J. Saunders; Mrs. D. W. Burgess. £496–912.

Principal, Jeanes School—Rev. D. M. Robertson, M.B.E. £550–1,320.

Headmaster (Area School)—Rev. T. I. Jordan. £550–1,000.

Masters—H. T. Lyons; C. B. Dibden. £550–1,000.

Director of Training—Vacant. £1,185–1,320.

Supervisor of Trades Education—F. Jackman. £870–1,000.

Secretary—A. B. Myles. £870–1,000.

ELECTRICITY AND WATER UNDERTAKING

(Lusaka)

Engineer-in-Charge—R. G. Reid. £1,005–1,140.

FORESTRY

Conservator of Forests—C. E. Duff, O.B.E. £1,550.

Senior Assistant Conservator of Forests—C. S. Cree. £1,185.

Assistant Conservators of Forests—H. J. A. Rea; D. Robertson; H. S. H. Watson; D. G. Cumming; I. G. Lumsden; A. P. B. Hamilton. £550–1,140. W. de C. Walsh; E. Q. O'Brien Smith (Development Staff); J. O. Wadhams; T. N. Wardrop. £1,140.

GAME AND TSETSE CONTROL

Director—T. G. C. Vaughan-Jones, M.A. £1,550.

Assistant Director—F. I. Parnell. £1,350.

Biologists—Major I. R. Grimwood. £1,000. A. D. H. Berwick; R. I. G. Attwell. £550–1,320.

Entomologist—W. S. Steel. £585–1,320.

Fisheries Officer—N. D. Paine. £550–1,320.

Fish Culturist—A. Sklower. £1,140.

Assistant Game Warden—D. G. Lancaster. £870–1,000.

HEALTH

Director of Medical Services—P. B. Robinson. £1,950.

Deputy-Directors—A. T. Howell; W. C. B. Harrison. £1,550.

Assistant Director—R. B. S. Smith. £1,500.

Senior Medical Officers—H. D. Sutherland; C. S. Davies; R. Nicklin; T. Evans; A. J. Board; J. H. C. Clarke. £1,350–1,450.

Senior Specialist—J. F. Macdonald. £1,550.

Surgical Specialist—P. F. S. Court. £1,400–1,500.

Pathologists—S. C. Buck; K. G. Gadd. £865–1,320.

Medical Officers—F. W. Gilbert; K. C. P. Thomson, M.C.; E. A. Beet; E. A. Keith; T. L. Briggs; J. S. Meredith; J. M. B. Garrod; O. L. C. Cookson; J. W. Nelson; C. M. Phillips; J. R. McGregor; A. J. Evans; W. Sheffield; E. Taube; L. H. Holroyd; A. W. Iljon; Mrs. E. Evans; G. Q. Patton; D. M. Mackay; E. G. Naylor; Mrs. E. G. Naylor; H. A. Jones; R. W. Nichol; A. P. Wingate; D. H. Morris; W. Gilges; Mrs. H. R. Wilso (Schools Medical Officer). £865–1,320.

Medical Officer of Health—Vacant. £865–1,320.

Medical Superintendent, Medical Training School—P. R. Stephens. £865–1,320.

Dental Surgeons—Mrs. S. Percladlowska; Miss N. C. W. Stewart (Schools Dental Officer). £865–1,320.

Medical Entomologist—G. G. Robinson. £620–1,320.

Chief Pharmacist—E. McPhee. £1,005–1,140.

Senior Health Inspector—G. F. Newbury. £870–1,000.

Secretary—H. H. Jones (acting). £870–1,000.

Accountant—W. E. Cousins. £670–1,000.

Assistant-Accountant—E. L. Herbert. £670–1,000.
Pharmacists and Hospital Secretaries—R. D. Cathro; N. L. Cunningham; A. W. Haylett; C. Mitchell; W. E. Foote; T. Little; J. B. Kayes; A. Anderson. £610–1,000.

Matron-in-Chief—Miss W. G. Houlding. £850.

Silicosis Medical Bureau

Chairman—J. F. C. Haslam, C.M.G., M.C. £1,550, plus personal allowance of £400.

Medical Specialist—R. Paul (acting). £1,385–1,485.

Medical Officers—R. Dunn; A. B. Wittek; W. Richmond; B. R. Davis; A. Gray. £865–1,320.

INCOME TAX

Commissioner—W. J. Donnelly, C.B.E. £1,625.

Assistant Commissioner—K. C. Johnson. £1,400.

Senior Assessors and Assessors—H. J. Barclay; L. F. Salway; W. C. E. Rowe. £550–1,230.

Office Superintendent—Vacant. £670–1,000.

INFORMATION AND PUBLIC RELATIONS

Director of Information—H. Franklin, O.B.E. £1,700.

Assistant Director—C. N. Lawrence. £865–1,140.

JUDICIAL

Chief Justice—Sir H. C. F. Cox. £2,350.

Puisne Judge—J. Woodman, O.B.E. £1,750.

Registrar of the High Court—G. M. Lawton. £760–1,320.

Resident Magistrates—H. S. Palmer; W. E. Evans; D. D. O’Donovan; C. D. G. Harbord; E. G. Bates, M.B.E.; W. E. Windham; T. D. B. Kimpson; E. H. Hamburger; L. P. Mosdell. £865–1,320.

LEGAL

Attorney-General—H. G. Morgan, K.C. £1,950.

Solicitor-General—A. G. Forbes. £1,550.

Crown Counsel—D. W. Conroy; M. W. Dennison, M.C.; W. K. H. Jones. £865–1,320.

LOCAL GOVERNMENT AND AFRICAN HOUSING

Commissioner—T. C. Colchester. £1,700.

Local Government Officer—J. R. Brown. £1,185–1,320.

Local Government Inspector—J. T. Watts. £550–1,050.

Executive Engineer—W. H. Hampson. £655–1,320.

LABOUR AND MINES

Commissioner for Labour and Mines—C. E. Cousins. £1,700.

Deputy Labour Commissioner—P. J. Low. £1,450.

Industrial Adviser—H. E. Galer. £1,450.

Controller of Apprenticeship and Workmen’s Compensation Commissioner—H. K. Smallwood. £1,185–1,320.

Chief Inspector of Mines—J. A. Fawdry. £1,450.

Senior Inspectors of Mines—F. J. Ryeland; L. M. Serfontein. £655–1,320.

Inspectors of Mines—A. F. H. Lombard; E. L. Banning. £655–1,320.

Senior Inspector of Machinery—C. R. E. Draper. £865–1,140.

Inspector of Machinery—C. Allen. £715–1,000.

Inspector of Apprentices—E. E. Steele. £715–1,000.

Senior Labour Officers—R. E. Luyt, D.C.M.; R. Philpott. £1,185–1,320.

Labour Officers—W. M. Comrie. £550–1,320.

Major W. Tysoe, D.S.C., O.B.E., M.C. £1,005–£1,140. E. F. Schultz; A. Torrance; L. M. Mitchell; W. J. Kenny; C. S. B. Hatton; J. E. M. Carter; H. W. Isaac (acting); N. D. Hunt, M.M. (acting); G. C. Watson; I. R. L. Kenny; P. S. Hunt (acting). £670–1,000.

S. Grimsrudt. £790.

Trade Tester—L. Nanorrow. £715–865.

POLICE

Commissioner of Police—Colonel J. E. Workman. £1,700.

Deputy Commissioner—R. J. W. Verrall, M.V.O. £1,450.

Senior Superintendents—G. C. Smith; E. D. Simmons. £1,185–1,320.

Superintendents—N. Brodie; A. J. Hawkins; T. M. Davidson; A. Wallace; T. H. Bush; D. W. Humphrey; O. Mitchell. £1,005–1,140.

Assistant Superintendents—C. N. Halse; J. M. Hellwell; J. C. Day; N. T. Nissen; L. A. Heatlie; G. B. Hesom; C. M. Breen; W. H. Tozer; R. J. Randell; H. L. O. Rundle; J. Hynds; T. E. Coton; C. H. Johnstone-Scott; A. J. Cook; J. F. Matheson; L. A. Hicks; J. S. Espey; R. J. Read. £970–1,000.

POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS

Postmaster-General—N. A. Thomson. £1,625.

Deputy Postmaster-General—C. J. Chambers. £1,400.

Assistant Postmaster-General—H. E. Roberts. £1,185–1,320.

Postal Surveyors—H. Mansfield; J. H. M. Black. £1,005–1,140.

Senior Postmasters—A. V. Evans; C. Jenkinson; E. H. Dubber; G. L. Scott; A. Carnell; J. B. Pawson; T. C. van den Berg; L. E. R. Foster. £870–1,000.

Senior Postmaster, Telecommunications—H. A. Macdonald. £870–1,000.

Chief Accountant—Vacant. £1,095–1,230.

Assistant Accountants—R. Percival; L. Williams. £670–1,000.

Assistant Accountant, Female—Mrs. M. W. Bayly. £590–715.

Engineer-in-Chief—R. Sturman. £1,320.

Assistant Engineers—O. H. Cooke; E. L. Wells. £655–1,140.

Senior Telegraph Inspectors—W. A. Robinson; K. Watts. £870–1,000.

PRICE CONTROL

Price Controller—M. A. McLaren. £1,350.

Deputy Price Controller—I. J. Villington-Scott. £1,110.

PRINTING AND STATIONERY

Government Printer—R. H. Payne, O.B.E. £1,350.

Assistant Government Printer—W. F. J. Hobbs. £870–1,000.

Officer-in-Charge, Monotype—J. G. Ingram. £670–900.

PRISONS

Commissioner—D. C. Cameron. £1,350.

Deputy Commissioner—D. Phillips. £1,005–1,140.

Superintendents—A. E. Weeks; B. Sharp; V. C. D. Farquharson; G. W. Richardson; A. V. Blake. £740–1,000.

PUBLIC WORKS

Director—A. L. Simpkins. £1,700.

Deputy Director—R. A. Tennant. £1,450.

Assistant Director—A. F. Daldy. £1,400.

Executive Engineer (Grade I)—R. Mason. £655–1,320.

Executive Engineers (Grade II)—A. G. Wakelin; W. R. Scott; G. C. W. Baldwin; I. E. Allanson; P. I. Tresham; H. S. Cartmell; D. Hutchison. £665–1,320.
Senior Mechanical Engineer—S. F. Gauron, M.B.E. £1,185–1,320.

Administrative Assistant to the Director—F. A. R. James, M.B.E. £550–1,320.

Senior Architect—P. D. Lawson. £1,400.

Architects—A. D. Agg; A. Akeroyd. £655–1,320.

Quantity Surveyors—T. J. Pratt; F. W. Wimsurst. £865–1,140.

Chief Accountant—H. M. Kirk. £1,095–1,230.

Accountants—A. W. Brown; K. S. M. Joubert; H. E. Harvey. £670–1,000.

Assistant Accountants—P. D. Hatchwell; J. K. Dickins; G. R. Paterson; K. L. Pinder; B. A. Bond. £670–1,000.

Assistant Establishment Officer—L. B. Baker. £670–1,000.

Labour Liaison Officer—K. H. Pottinger. £670–1,000.

**STORES AND TRANSPORT**

Controller of Stores—F. W. Bailey. £1,450.

Accountant—Vacant. £870–1,000.

**SURVEYS AND LAND**

Director of Surveys and Land—S. F. Turner. £1,625.

Deputy Director—R. M. Garrard. £1,400.

Surveyors—P. W. M. Allin; D. S. Cleak; G. H. H. Quiggin; M. I. D. Sutherland; M. Perks; F. J. Woods; W. M. Younger; A. H. Ward; S. E. S. Grzebski; J. W. Clayphan; P. G. Sandwith. £550–1,320.

Registrar of Lands and Deeds—C. O’Connor. £760–1,320.

Deputy Registrar—Mrs. T. M. Hockey. £590–£715.

Computer—E. S. Dawson. £670–1,000.

Secretary, Lands Department—F. Johnston. £870–1,000.

Chief Draughtsman—A. L. Brown. £870–1,000.

Assistant Accountant—J. F. Davidson. £670–1,000.

**VETERINARY**

Director of Veterinary Services—J. H. N. Hobday, O.B.E. £1,700.

Deputy Director—G. F. Elliott. £1,450.

Senior Veterinary Officer—J. McArthur; J. F. C. Swan. £865–1,320.

Veterinary Officers—E. W. Ascott; D. Sheriff; G. D. Shaw; S. L. Trevor; J. C. Rix; Mrs. E. Hobday. £865–1,320.

Senior Veterinary Research Officer—J. W. Macaulay. £865–1,320.

Veterinary Research Officer—P. J. Sheehy. £865–1,320.

Dairy and Poultry Officer—S. A. Child. £865–1,320.

**WATER DEVELOPMENT AND IRRIGATION**

Director—T. W. Longridge. £1,550.

Senior Geologist—J. H. M. McNaughton. £1,140–1,320.

Geologist—J. Hays. £690–1,320.

Water Engineers (Grades I and II)—D. W. T. Wilson; P. N. White; T. R. Taylor; J. H. Fletcher, C.B.E., M.C.; F. L. Bruce; A. Reachlous; M. Roberts; J. P. Doherty; W. N. McAdam; W. B. A. Ritchie; D. J. Symington. £655–1,320.

Geophysicist—H. H. J. Lambert. £690–1,140.

