Singapore and its Dependencies

Situation and Area

Singapore Island is situated off the southern extremity of the Malay Peninsula, to which it is joined by a causeway carrying a road and railway. The straits between the island and mainland are about three-quarters of a mile wide. The island is 26 miles in length, 14 miles in breadth, and 220 square miles in area (including the adjacent islets). The town of Singapore is situated on the southern side of the island, in latitude 1°17' N., and longitude 103° 50' E.

Christmas Island is situated in the Indian Ocean about 190 nautical miles south of the western extremity of Java, in latitude 10° 30' S., and longitude 105° 40' E. The island, which is densely wooded, has an area of about 60 square miles, and contains extensive deposits of phosphate of lime which are worked and exported.

The Cocos-Keeling Islands, a group of 27 small coral islands about 700 nautical miles south-west of Batavia lie (except for North Keeling Island) between latitude 12° 4' to 12° 13' S., and longitude 96° 49' to 96° 56' E. The largest is five miles long and one-fourth mile wide. Only two, "Home" and "Direction" islands, have important settlements, the latter being inhabited by the staff of Cable and Wireless, which maintains a station there. On West Island there is an air-strip which played an important part in communications during the war with Japan (the Cocos Islands, unlike the rest of the Colony, were never occupied by the Japanese). Home Island houses the labour force for working the large coconut plantations on the islands. The only export is copra.

Climate

The climate of Singapore is characterised by uniform temperature, high humidity and copious rainfall. The variation of temperature throughout the year is very small and the excessively high temperatures of continental tropical areas are never experienced. The average maximum temperature for the whole year is 87° F. and the average minimum temperature 74° F. The average for any one month does not vary from the annual mean by more than 2° F.

There are no well-marked dry and wet seasons. Rain falls throughout the year. Records for a number of years show that the average rainfall is 95 inches. December is the wettest month, with a little over 10 inches, while February, May, June, July and September are dry months, with between 6½ and 7 inches. Rain falls on the average on one day in two.

The wettest year on record is 1913 with 135·92 inches, and the driest year 1888, with 63·21 inches. Prevailing winds are southerly from May to October and northerly from November to April.

The annual rainfall for the year 1949 was 93·38 inches against a normal rainfall of 95 inches. The wettest month was December, with 12·56 inches of rain. The driest month was March, with 2·91 inches of rain.

The highest temperature was 94° F. on March 23rd and April 6th. The lowest temperature was 71° F. on several occasions.

General Description

The island, which is roughly diamond-shaped, but broken by long inlets, has no outstanding natural features. The highest point is Bukit
Timah Hill (581 feet). The only large stretches of inland water are the McRitchie, Peirce and Seletar Reservoirs. The island is fringed on the west with mangrove swamps. To the east there are stretches of low cliff; good bathing beaches are few. The adjacent islands forming part of the colony include Blakang Mati and St. John's Island, which are used for Government purposes, and Pulau Brani and Pulau Bukum, on which there are commercial installations. The rest are mainly inhabited by fishermen. The soil is predominantly red laterite and clay and not easily worked, though intensive market-garden culture is carried on by the Chinese in the more fertile valleys. There is only one small stretch of rice cultivation.

Singapore is primarily a commercial and strategic centre. It is the chief port for the produce of the Malay peninsula, the chief entrepôt centre for South-East Asia and Indonesia, and a focus for air and sea transport. There are also a number of secondary, processing and assembly industries. Tin smelting, the manufacture of rubber goods, rattan works, saw-mills, brick works, paints, and the canning of locally-grown pineapples are the more important of these; products of secondary importance are beer, biscuits, soap, coconut-oil, ground-nut, furniture, asbestos packings, aluminium manufactures, etc.; but the prosperity of the colony mainly depends on the productivity and volume of trade of the surrounding territories.

### Population of Singapore Island

| Race       | 1947 Census (Preliminary) | Per cent. | Estimated Population as on 30th June, 1950 | Per cent. |
|------------|--------------------------|-----------|------------------------------------------|-----------|
| Chinese    | 727,863                  | 77·6      | 790,310                                  | 77·9      |
| Malays     | 114,654                  | 12·2      | 125,333                                  | 12·3      |
| Indians    | 71,289                   | 7·6       | 72,490                                   | 7·1       |
| Europeans  | 8,718                    | 0·9       | 11,588                                   | 0·9       |
| Eurasians  | 9,012                    | 1·0       | 10,093                                   | 1·0       |
| Others     | 6,543                    | 0·7       | 8,605                                    | 0·8       |
| **Total**  | **938,079**              | **100·0** | **1,018,419**                            | **100·0** |

Sex Ratio—There are 827 females for every 1,000 males (Males 526,309, Females 435,168).

### Religion

The larger Christian communities represented in Singapore are the Church of England, Roman Catholic, Presbyterian and Methodist Churches and the Salvation Army. The Anglican Bishop of Singapore, the Roman Catholic Bishop of Malacca and the Methodist (U.S.) Bishop have their headquarters in Singapore.

A variety of beliefs is found amongst the Chinese population, including Buddhism, Confucianism and Taoism.

The Malays and a minority of the Indians are Muslims, whose religious interests are watched through the Muslim Advisory Board.

The majority of the Indians, being Tamils from South India, are Hindus. They have four principal temples, three controlled by the Mohammedan and Hindu Endowment Board, the fourth by the Chettiar community.

### History

The original city of Singapore (Lion City) is said to have been founded by immigrants from Sumatra. It rose to prominence in the fourteenth century, but was destroyed by the Javanese Majapahit Empire in or before 1377. Thenceforth it was little more than a fishing village with a handful of inhabitants until Sir Stamford Raffles founded a settlement there in 1819 by virtue of a treaty made on the 6th February with the Johore Princes. The Dutch at first strongly resented this action on the part of the British in an area which they had hitherto regarded as being in their control, but by the Treaty of London signed in 1824, all outstanding territorial differences between the two powers were settled. On 2nd August, 1824 a final treaty was concluded by which the Sultan of Johore ceded the island in full sovereignty and property to the East India Company. Suitable payment was arranged in exchange.

The rise and expansion of the new settlement was phenomenal. By June, 1819, Raffles was able to report that the influx of Chinese, Bugis and Malacca Malays had raised the population to 5,000. In 1824 that number had at least been doubled, and 35,000 tons of shipping used the port. In 1835 the population was 30,000 and the tonnage 200,000. It was already clear that the island was rapidly becoming the principal British port in the Far East and the centre of trade for the area bounded by Sumatra and New Guinea, Java and China; it was trading with India, Siam, Indo-China and the Philippines. The trade figures were £2,610,440 in 1825, £13,252,175 in 1864. The population which at the first census in 1824 numbered 10,683 had risen by 1860 to 81,734 of all nationalities. Singapore had completely overshadowed its sister settlements of Malacca and Penang with which it had been incorporated in 1826 as the Straits Settlements, and it was natural that the seat of government should be transferred from Penang to Singapore in 1832.

The Straits Settlements had been put under the presidency of Bengal in 1830 and transferred to the direct control of the Governor-General in 1851. However, since the abolition of the Company’s monopoly of the China trade in 1834, India was no longer interested in the Straits; moreover, it was difficult to find suitable officials for the territory and protection in war was impossible. On 10th August, 1866, an Act was passed to transfer the control of the Straits Settlements from the Indian Government to the Colonial Office. On 1st April, 1867, the transfer was effected and the Straits Settlements became a Crown Colony.
In the development of the Malayan hinterland Singapore played a primary part and in the resultant prosperity she had her share. It was in Singapore that European processes of tin smelting were introduced in 1887, with the result that in 1939 Singapore smelted more tin than England and Holland combined. It was in Singapore and in Perak that *Hevea Brasiliensis* was successfully cultivated in 1877, and although Singapore grew little rubber itself, it became the chief rubber export centre of the world, and in 1918 out of a total trade of $512,229,753 the value of rubber exported was $153,499,920. Population followed prosperity in a continuous upward curve: a century after Raffles' landing the population within the municipal limits was estimated at 305,000, and in 1947 preliminary figures from the census enumeration recorded a total population of 938,079, of whom 77·6 per cent. were Chinese.

"Singapore," Raffles wrote, "will become the Malta of the East"; but though by 1938 the resemblance had become a reality with the completion of a first-class naval base and the construction of an air-base, Singapore differs from Malta in one essential particular, in that it has an extensive hinterland from which it is separated only by a narrow strait. Lacking naval and air support, the fortress succumbed to a Japanese land attack in February, 1942.

For three and a half years Singapore under the alias of Syonan groaned under the heavy heel of the Japanese militarists. On 5th September, 1945, the forces of South East Asia Command under Lord Louis (now Viscount) Mountbatten bloodlessly recovered Singapore, shabby and despoiled, but largely intact, no longer to be one of the Straits Settlements but to constitute the separate Colony of Singapore.

The British Military Administration which followed the liberation and lasted until the last day of March, 1946, was marked by rapid rehabilitation and revival of trade and industry, which gained momentum under the Civil Government restored on 1st April, 1946. An event of historical interest has been the introduction of universal adult suffrage with the coming into force on 18th July, 1947, of the Legislative Council Elections Ordinance. With the foundation of the University of Malaya on 8th October 1949, Singapore will share with the Federation of Malaya the opportunity to bring to fulfilment the last and most cherished of Raffles' visions, of Malaya as the cultural centre of South East Asia.

**CONSTITUTION AND ADMINISTRATION**

Prior to the loss of Malaya to the Japanese in February, 1942, the Settlement of Singapore, together with the Settlements of Penang and Malacca and Labuan, formed the Colony of the Straits Settlements. On the re-occupation of Malaya, Singapore and the Malay Peninsula were administered by separate branches of British military administration, but on 1st April, 1946, on the re-introduction of civil government, Singapore became a separate Crown Colony by Order in Council, and at the same time the administration of the Settlements of Malacca and Penang was included in the Malayan Union. The Order in Council made further provision for the separation from the Colony of the Settlement of Labuan, which continued under military administration for the time being. The separation took place on 10th July, 1946. Co-ordination between the governments in matters of common interest was ensured by the appointment of a Governor-General. On the departure of Lord Killearn, who had been Special Commissioner for S.E. Asia, his work was amalgamated with that of the Governor-General under the new title of Commissioner-General for S.E. Asia. The new appointment carries on the former advisory and co-ordinating role of the Governor-General. Colonial Office statements and the White Paper (Cmd. 7171) on the Federation of Malaya envisage the possibility of the eventual inclusion of Singapore within the Malayan Federation.

**Form of Government**

On 1st April, 1948, the first Legislative Council for the Colony of Singapore was sworn in and the period of the Advisory Council which had operated since the return of civil government on 1st April, 1946, came to an end. The first elections had taken place successfully on 20th March with 76 per cent. of the 22,387 registered voters casting their votes. Of the six elected from territorial constituencies by a predominantly Asian electorate, one was an Englishman.

The Legislative Council consists of the Governor as President (with an original and a casting vote); 4 ex-officio members (the Colonial and Financial Secretaries, the Attorney-General, and the President of the Municipal Commissioners); 5 nominated officials; 3 elected severally by the Singapore, Chinese and Indian Chambers of Commerce; 6 elected by universal suffrage of all British subjects and persons born in the British protected States in Malaya and Borneo over 21 on the annually-revised electoral register; and 4 nominated unofficials. The Council thus has an unofficial majority. In 1951, 3 elected members will be added to the present 6, and all will be elected in single-member constituencies.

The affairs of the Municipal area of 30·96 square miles—chiefly public utilities, public health, roads and sewage disposal—are run by a body of 27 Municipal Commissioners, of which 18 are elected by popular vote and 9 are nominated by the Governor, under a Senior officer of the Malayan Civil Service as President. It raises its own funds from rates.

**Justice**

The Courts Ordinance (Chapter 10) provides for the following courts for the administration of civil and criminal law:

(a) The Supreme Court;
(b) District Courts;
(c) Police Courts;
(d) Coroners' Courts.

The Court of Criminal Appeal Ordinance (Chapter 11) provides for appeals from convictions in trial at assizes.

The Supreme Court is composed of the Chief Justice and three or more Puisne Judges. It is a court of record, and consists of:

(a) The High Court which exercises original criminal and civil jurisdiction, and appellate criminal and civil jurisdiction in cases tried in district and police courts; and

(b) The Court of Appeal which exercises appellate civil jurisdiction in cases tried in the High Court.

An appeal lies from the Court of Appeal and from the Court of Criminal Appeal by leave to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council.

Criminal trials at assizes are held before a judge sitting with a jury of seven persons.
There are five District Courts in the Colony, one for civil and the others for criminal cases. The civil jurisdiction of a District Court is limited to suits involving not more than $500 when a district judge presides, and not more than $100 when an assistant district judge presides.

There are at present seven police courts in the Colony, the Governor having power to constitute as many police courts as he thinks fit. The jurisdiction of the police courts is regulated by the Criminal Procedure Code (Chapter 21) but certain additional powers and duties are conferred upon them by other ordinances.

There is also a Coroner's Court; a Coroner is appointed by the Governor either for the whole colony or for a district thereof.

The Courts Ordinance provides also for the appointment of Justices of the Peace. Justices of the Peace have no power to try cases.

The criminal procedure of the colony is governed by the Criminal Procedure Code, while civil procedure is governed by rules of court made under the Courts Ordinance.

Civil procedure in the Supreme Court is governed by rules of the Supreme Court, and civil procedure in the District Courts is governed by District Court rules.

SOCIAL SERVICES

Education

Nineteen-fifty has been a crucial year for education in Singapore, for it has seen the inauguration of the Supplementary Five Year Plan which with the previously agreed Ten Year Plan, will, by 1959, provide free universal primary education in English Schools for 300,000 school-children, compared with 124,113 children registered in schools in 1950, 115,076 in 1949 and 72,000 in 1941.

The new Plan was heralded by a uniquely successful Education Week in May when all schools were open for visits by parents and public. It concluded with a Youth Rally in which 14,000 children of all communities took part.

The funds were voted at the end of 1949, and a special unit of the P.W.D. was set up to plan and build the Emergency schools, 18 of which are to be completed in 1950. By the end of September, 11 buildings housing 21 schools and providing for 6,308 pupils were open. The Secretary of State for the Colonies, Mr. James Griffiths, in June opened the first of these schools. Four more opened on October 9th and three more were taken over in November. No school under the Ten-Year Plan is yet ready for occupation. Four are under construction. Extensions to six Malay schools have been completed and the new Science Wing at Victoria Secondary School is now in use. On March 31st, 1950, Singapore had 35 English schools, 43 Malay schools, 2 Trade schools (all Government or Government-aided) 283 registered Chinese schools, 70 registered private English schools, and 19 registered Indian schools. Of the 124,113 children in school, 36,000 are girls.

The Teachers Training College is now fully at work with 751 pupils, mainly for the schools under the Five-Year Plan. In January only 287 were in training. In September were opened the first classes in the full-time two-year training course.

At a public meeting of all those interested in adult education, it was agreed to establish a Council of Adult Education, the constitution and functions of which are now being defined. Meanwhile, the promotion of classes for literacy in English by official and unofficial groups is increasing.

The University of Malaya which incorporates the former King Edward VII College of Medicine and Raffles College has completed its first full year, and its first graduation ceremony was held in June, 1950. It now has 650 students.

Information Services

The Public Relations Office is a branch of the Secretariat under a Public Relations Secretary. He is therefore kept in close touch both with policy and central administration and is in a central position from which to keep in touch with Departments. The Public Relations Office was opened in April, 1946. It has been an integral branch of the Secretariat since the beginning of 1948. It was not a separate department of Government, nor was it intended to relieve departments of their own responsibility for their good relations with the public. It was intended to assist them by providing specialist advice and services in the public presentation of their policies and activities. And from its central position it could make full use of all media of information in presenting the Government as a whole to the people. By personal contacts, press conferences and press releases the office keeps in close touch with the press, both local and overseas. Singapore remains the press capital of Malaya, and apart from Reuters, U.P. and A.P., U.K. papers have full time correspondents based on Singapore. Many foreign correspondents pass through Singapore. The vernacular press is monitored daily.

In addition the office operates two film units and two public address vans, maintains 30 photo stations and four poster hoardings, co-operates with the police, prints in four languages and distributes posters, pamphlets and leaflets, organises exhibitions, lecture courses, and special campaigns, e.g. "Safety First" and Service Recruiting.

Department of Broadcasting

This is a pan-Malayan Department which broadcasts in English, Malay, Chinese (8 dialects) and Tamil. At the end of 1949, 24,274 licences had been issued in Singapore. Four transmitters operate in Singapore where the H.Q. is situated. The Department broadcasts regular news bulletins and talks, as well as entertainment in the form of classical, light and dance music and drama. Outside broadcasts are given of events of public sporting interest.

Schools broadcasts are a successfully established part of the programme. They average 11 hours a week with 29 different programmes in English, Malay and Mandarin. At the end of 1948, 36 English, 7 Malay and 36 Chinese schools in Singapore were using the programmes.

Rediffusion is operated on a commercial basis.

British Council

The British Council Office in Singapore contains the office of the Regional Representative for Malaya and Borneo. It operates in a former school, loaned by Government, and centrally situated. This is a centre of art exhibitions, including local artists, lectures and cultural film shows. Pictures and gramophone records are distributed on loan.
Health

The Government Medical Department in its nine hospitals provides accommodation up to 3,400 beds, including the Mental Hospital. Of these 1,200 are available for treatment of acute illness. In addition for the rural population, there are two static dispensaries and three travelling dispensaries. There is a Medical Faculty in the University of Malaya where the qualifications of M.B. and B.S. can be obtained after a full course of training lasting six years. Training is also given for the B.D.S. (Bachelor of Dental Surgery), the Diploma of Pharmacy and for the Diploma of the Royal Sanitary Institute.

During 1950, the Medical Plan which was approved in 1948 and was to have come into operation in 1949, was in fact begun. Trafalgar Home, the hospital for lepers was extended by 112 beds and 28 small housing units for patients engaged in work in the Home. The Government Medical Store was extended and a new unit for women T.B. patients opened at the Tan Tock Seng Hospital.

In the field of tuberculosis, outdoor treatment at the clinic presented by the Rotary Club, domiciliary relief, and assistance by the Almoners Department has expanded. The B.C.G. Campaign, after successful experiments in the use of the vaccine, started at the end of 1950. If the average incidence of tuberculosis from 1939-1941 is taken as 100, the index which rose to 170 during the Japanese occupation fell to 57 in 1949. The problem remains urgent and the Rotary T.B. clinic will be extended and the plans for the sanatorium which was to have been built in 1953 are now being made. The Singapore Anti-Tuberculosis Association with its own clinic and treatment centre gives valuable co-operation to the Government Services.

There is increasing demand by the health-conscious public on the Government Services. Hospital out-patient attendances which were 100,000 in pre-war years rose to 375,000 in 1949. Tuberculosis out-patients increased from a negligible number before the war to 29,000 in 1949. In the rural and maternity services, clinics have increased in number from 11 before the war to 36 in 1949; attendances have increased in the same period from 85,000 to 168,000 and visits by the Health Nurses have increased from 70,000 to 130,000. Daily attendances reached the record figure of 702,000. In the villages, midwives are attending four to five times as many deliveries as are considered the maximum in the United Kingdom. During the year a new clinic was opened in the Bukit Panjang area, the gift to Government from the residents of that area.

The key problem remains one of staff. Recruitment of doctors in the U.K. is difficult and there is a shortage of nurses. This is the greatest limiting factor in developing the medical services, but plans are on foot for intensive recruiting of nurses. The health figures for the Colony continue to improve. Although the population is increasing by some 50,000 a year, the number of deaths dropped from 14,200 in 1939 to 11,600 in 1949 and infantile deaths from 4,500 to 3,300. The death rate is now at its lowest and comparable with that of England and Wales; the infantile mortality rate has fallen from 130-47 in 1939, and about 300 during the occupation, to 72-4 in 1949. And with no outbreak of any of the major and dangerous infectious diseases, Singapore remains the healthiest port in the East.

Labour

Singapore differs from many other Colonial territories in that the island is not a primary producing area. Its many industries are engaged chiefly in processing and using for manufacture a wide variety of raw materials obtained from abroad.

Over 3,000 places of employment are known to the Labour Department, and in these places nearly 80,000 labourers are at work. In addition, nearly 40,000 are employed by Government, Singapore Harbour Board, the Municipality and by the three Services. There are more than 100 varieties of industry represented in those places of employment and necessarily a great many more varieties of occupation.

Chief amongst them may be mentioned industries connected with rubber:—smoking, milling, packing for export and manufacture of rubber goods in which more than 8,000 persons, male and female, are employed. The building trade provides work for about the same number; followed by metal industries which include engineering, tin smelting, pipe manufacturing, etc., with 5,500 labourers; food, drink and tobacco undertakings with about 5,000; and the chemical industry, including paint, oil and petroleum products, with 4,500.

Nearly 2,000 persons are employed on stevedoring and approximately the same number in lightercage, apart from those in the Singapore Harbour Board.

Wages in commercial undertakings remained constant during the earlier part of 1948. Employers were strongly warned against taking advantage of the Emergency which was declared in June, 1948, but by the end of the year, economic conditions justified some reduction from the high rates which had been reached during the post-war period.

The output of the individual in Singapore is still below that of workmen in a similar position in England. This is partly due to the climate, but more especially to the lack of mechanisation—a fact now forced upon the employers’ notice by high labour costs.

The normal working day is 8 hours, though a maximum of 9 is still permitted by law; six days’ work per week is the practice in many of the larger establishments though labourers working on piece rates, especially the Chinese, prefer to work and to rest as they may choose. The Weekly Holidays Ordinance ensures that shops close on one day during the week, and that shop assistants shall receive a weekly holiday.

Extra rates are paid for overtime work, usually one and a half times the ordinary rate, rising to double rates if prolonged. Work done on Sunday or holidays is often paid for at double rates.

When industrial disputes occur or are threatened, the Labour Department makes every effort to promote conciliatory discussions between the parties and to arrange a settlement between the two sides. There are, in fact, very few disputes in which an officer of the Labour Department does not act as mediator.

Machinery exists for the settlement of disputes by legally established Arbitration Boards, or by Industrial Courts if the parties so wish. Submission of a dispute to either of these bodies must be by mutual consent of both parties and only if direct negotiations are unsuccessful. No compulsory powers exist for the settlement of any trade dispute, nor are they thought desirable.
In addition to the Singapore Health Services Interim Joint Council, the Singapore Postal Services Joint Committee, and the Services Committees which continue to meet and perform a useful function, three industries have succeeded in setting up joint Consultative Committees consisting of employers and employees. These are the barbers, the lighterage industry and the rubber milling industry.

The declaration of the Emergency in June led to the disappearance of many of the leaders of communist-dominated trade unions. No action was taken against such unions merely on account of the action of individual officers or members. In many cases however, the union itself disappeared, and where neither responsible officials nor members would come forward to re-organise it, registration was cancelled after the requisite notice had been given. Ten such unions were dissolved during 1948, 9 other unions were dissolved at their own request, leaving at the end of the year 118 employees' unions, 36 employers' unions and 2 federations. This meant that many disputes were settled peacefully which formerly would have led to strikes. There has been one strike in 18 months, though the prompt establishment of a Court of Enquiry prevented a major dispute in the rubber-milling Industry. At the same time there is no doubt that fear of action under the Emergency Regulations prevented more active protest against retrenchments and wage reductions. To guard against the danger that employers might take advantage of the situation to force down wages, repeated assurances were given that genuine trade unions need have no fears and in several cases employers were persuaded to postpone wage reductions. The result has been the re-organisation of several unions, and an increasing tendency for the genuine unions to negotiate reasonably for a fair settlement.

The office of the Registrar of Trade Unions forms part of the Labour Department.

Many other functions are undertaken by the Labour Department; among those not already referred to, the following may be mentioned:—advice to employers, employees, Government and Government Departments on all labour matters; enforcement of the proper observance of the Labour Ordinance, certain parts of the Children's Ordinance and the Machinery Ordinance by inspection of factories and places of employment; the settlement of claims under the Workmen's Compensation Ordinance or the representation of labourers before the Commissioner for Workmen's Compensation; enquiry into and adjudication of wage claims; the operation of the Indian Immigration Fund; the repatriation of Indians and the payment to them of gratuities and other monies; the operation of a Labour Exchange; collection of statistics; the organisation of industrial canteens; and the distribution of supplementary rations to certain categories of workers; and the preparation of reports on these matters as required.

In September, 1949, the I.L.O. Conference on Vocational Training was held in Singapore, and was attended by eight delegates from Singapore.

In the field of legislation, work is still proceeding on the new Labour Ordinance. An amendment was also made to the Trade Disputes Ordinance providing greater immunity for trade unionists against charges of conspiracy. The 1947 amendment to the Workmen's Compensation Ordinance, bringing labourers' earning up to $400 per month within its scope has been extended into 1950. Under the Emergency Regulations the Registrar of Trade Unions retains power to "freeze" trade union funds if the responsible officials had disappeared, and the strikes and lockout regulations provided for the giving of notice before a strike or lockout could be called. Under the Merchant Shipping Ordinance, the Seamen's Registration Bureau continues to operate. A Weekly Holidays Ordinance, which makes compulsory the closing of shops on one day of the week and the granting of a weekly holiday to shop, restaurant and theatre assistants, which was passed in 1949, came into force in 1950 on the appointment of the necessary inspectors. The Children and Young Persons Ordinance came into force on 1st August, 1950. The minimum age for the employment of children in factories, godowns or workshops has now been raised to 14; and in the acting profession children under the age of 12 are now forbidden to take part in a public entertainment promoted for profit, and children and young persons under the age of 17 now require to be licensed. Applications for licences in respect of some 200 children have already been received, and the total number will probably be at least twice that figure.

A new Labour Ordinance is in the course of preparation and should be placed before this Council before very long.

The Labour Advisory Board is under the Chairmanship of the Commissioner for Labour. Its terms of reference are "To consider and make recommendations on any aspect of labour, and any matters concerning labour which may seem proper to it or which may be referred to it." During the year, membership was increased from 9 to 12, four members each being nominated on behalf of Government, employers and workers.

Welfare

The Development of the Department of Social Welfare is an outstanding feature of post-war Singapore. Formed in June, 1946, this Department was inevitably preoccupied in its earliest days with relieving the confusion and distress which prevailed as a result of the Japanese occupation. Since that time it has shed many of these emergency activities and is now becoming the permanent instrument of progressive social policy in the Colony.

Its function is to carry out statutory and administrative functions in the social field which are not provided by existing Government departments and which are characterised by the fact that they should be equally available to, or obligatory upon, all citizens, the rest of the welfare field is left open to the Colony's numerous and well organised voluntary agencies, with whom the Department works in close partnership, entering the field only to operate such residual institutions or services as are not, or cannot conveniently be, established and maintained by voluntary effort alone.

The Department acts as a co-ordinating agency between the various voluntary bodies as well as those Departments of Government whose activities impinge upon the field of social welfare. The medium by which this is carried out is the Social Welfare Council, consisting of representatives of the most prominent voluntary bodies including the churches, as well as heads of the Departments of Education, Medicine, Labour and Co-operation, and representatives of the Municipal
Commission and the Rural Board. Government grants to voluntary bodies are administered by the Department.

The Department is the body which exercises statutory functions under the Women and Girl’s Ordinance and the Children’s Ordinance. In this it co-operates with the Police, the Immigration Department, and the Medical Department, carrying out raids on notorious premises, screening all female immigrants (7,737 were screened in the first 8 months of 1950), conducting prosecutions and maintaining a large number of women and children in need of care and protection in three institutions as well as inspecting similar institutions run by voluntary bodies.

The chief development during 1950 has been in the field of social assistance. In order to develop and make them more effective the existing systems of indoor and outdoor assistance were financed partly from revenue and partly by trust funds and voluntary organisations. The Tuberculosis Treatment Allowances Scheme introduced in 1949 is a primary weapon in the Colony’s action against tuberculosis. Its aim is to rehabilitate tuberculosis victims in the early stages and to restore them to full living in the community. Of the 411 completed cases since the scheme was started, no less than 80 per cent. have been certified as fit for work. A Social Security Working Party has produced an interim plan for the improvement of this assistance service which plays an important part in the 5-year plan of the Department.

The Children’s Ordinance came into force on 1st August, 1950, and is now in operation. It sets up a Juvenile Court, a Juvenile Probationary Service and puts on a statutory basis the institutions for the detention of juveniles both governmental and voluntary. It also provides for the control of child labour and the registration of transferred children.

The juvenile court is now functioning and local probation officers are being trained by a Probation Adviser seconded from the United Kingdom. An approved school is operating on the most up-to-date lines.

An advice and enquiry service is in existence helping individuals in such matters as making claims, settling disputes and tracing relatives.

The Department administers a free feeding scheme for children suffering from malnutrition. 19 centres called Children’s Social Centres, were in operation during 1949 and the policy is gradually to shift the emphasis from the purely feeding aspect of these Centres to the social and educational potentialities which they have been shown to possess in over-crowded areas where schooling, club and community facilities are not yet available to the whole population. These Centres owe their success largely to a body of voluntary lady workers, representative of all the races in Singapore.

The Department seeks to stimulate the establishment of boys’ and girls’ clubs and hostels, and where possible to run such institutions through the agency of voluntary bodies, the Department providing funds and advice when required. In this work the Department collaborates with the Singapore Youth Council and the Federation of Boys’ Clubs, both independent organisations. In 1950, a Youth Council was formed including all youth organisations.

A course for Probation Officers which followed on the courses previously organised on the general principles of social welfare and a special course in social survey technique, were organised by the Department during 1949. Training courses for youth leaders are being arranged.

COMMUNICATIONS

Railways

The railway system serves Singapore and the Federation of Malaya. From Singapore Island the railway crosses to the mainland by the Johore Causeway. The main line then runs roughly parallel to the west coast of the Malayan Peninsula, but at some distance inland to Prai on the west coast opposite the Island of Penang. This main west coast line is 488 miles long. From Bukit Mertajam (5 miles south of Prai), a line branches off the main line and continues in a northerly direction to the Siamese frontier at Padang Besar, the junction with the Royal State Railways of Siam, 99 miles from Bukit Mertajam. Lines branch from the main line to serve railway-operated ports at Port Dickson, Port Swettenham, Teluk Anson and Port Weld. A branch line, 22 miles long, which connected the port of Malacca with the main line, was removed by the Japanese during their 3½ years of occupation, and has not yet been replaced.

The East Coast Line branches from the main line at Gemas, 137 miles from Singapore, and runs in a northerly direction through the States of Negri Sembilan, Pahang and Kelantan, and terminates at the port of Tumpat on the east coast close to the Siamese border. The distance from Gemas to Tumpat is 327 miles. At Pasir Mas, 16 miles south of Tumpat, a branch line 13 miles long runs west to connect with the Royal State Railways of Siam at the border station of Sungai Golok.

The Japanese removed a length of 200 miles of the East Coast Line between Mentakab (Pahang) and Krai (Kelantan). The restoration work on the 17 miles between Sungai Kusial and Krai was completed and the section was opened for traffic on 8th September, 1948. This work included the restoration of the Guillelmaid and Sungai Naf bridges. The relaying operations northwards from Mentakab were continued with the specially constructed track-laying train, using prefabricated track. On 15th April, 1948, the section from Mentakab to Kuala Krau was completed and on 3rd November, 1948, the section from Mentakab to Jerantut was completed. The distance from Mentakab to Jerantut is 32 miles. Relaying northwards from Jerantut has been suspended temporarily.

A through service is run once a week between Prai and Bankgok, the Siamese capital.

A twice weekly service is also maintained between Prai and Tumpat in Kelantan via the Siamese Southern Line Padang Besar–Sungai Golok, but this service has been temporarily suspended in view of the present state of emergency in Malaya.

Buffet cars and sleeping saloons are provided on the night mail trains between Prai and Singapore, and one air conditioned buffet car is attached to the Kuala Lumpur–Prai day mail on alternate days. Improvements have been made in 2nd and 3rd class accommodation.

First class fares are at the rate of 12½ cents per mile.

Revenue for 1949 was $38 million and expenditure was $35 million.

The railway employs a total staff of 14,460, of whom 102 are expatriate officers.

Shipping

Singapore Harbour is practically land-locked. Its port limits cover an area of 36½ square miles,
consisting of the inner harbour protected from the north-east monsoon by a mile-long granite rubble mole, the outer harbour and the western anchorage. Responsibility for the piloting, buoying and lighting of the port lie with the Government through the Master Attendant. There are efficient lighterage services to ships in the harbour.

Public wharves and dry docks which cover over 690 acres are controlled by the Singapore Harbour Board appointed by the Government. By-laws and rules and charges are made by the Board subject to the approval of the Governor-in-Council.

Shipping and Port Facilities

The Singapore Harbour Board has wharves of a total length of 12,224 feet. They are equipped with 41 transit sheds and, in addition, storage warehouses of approximately 700,000 sq. feet. Coal is discharged at the coal wharf at a maximum weight of 200 tons per hour by mechanical means. There are facilities for pumping palm oil and latex direct from the storage tanks into the ocean-going ships.

The Board has its own railway system of some 16 miles in length. It has a full fleet of tugs for harbour use and a salvage tug with a length of 5,000 miles.

The Board directly employs its own stevedores and wharf labour.

The Board has five dry docks of which the largest, the King's Dock, is capable of accommodating ships up to 45,000 tons. The dockyard is equipped for engine and hull repairs on a large scale. It also operates its own power station with a total capacity of 4,000 kilowatts.

For the year ended 30th June, 1949, 2,528 vessels of a total registered tonnage of 697,979 tons were berthed at the wharves. This is the highest figure since the war. The amount of cargo dealt with in the same period was 1,455,011 tons inward and 1,384,847 outward. These figures include fuel oil and coal. The total tonnage handled both inward and outward and including fuel oil and coal was 3,608,285. During the same period, 399 vessels were docked for repairs and painting.

During 1948, the labour contract system of employing labour was replaced by direct employment. This change-over was accomplished smoothly and its efficiency has proved the rightness of the decision taken.

Air

All civil air transport now uses Kallang Airport (runway 1,780 yards) which is operated by the Department of Civil Aviation.

International Airline operating companies, which include B.O.A.C., Q.E.A., K.L.M. and Pan American Airlines, provide scheduled services between Singapore and the continents of Europe, Australia, and America. In addition scheduled air services connect Singapore with capitals in Siam, Indonesia, French Indo-China, Hong Kong, the Philippines, Burma, India, and Ceylon.

Malaya has an efficient domestic air service provided by Malayan Airways, Ltd., who, besides running several scheduled services daily between Singapore and airports in the Federation of Malaya, operate frequent scheduled services to Sarawak and North Borneo and to points in Siam, Indonesia, French Indo China, and Burma.

Air traffic through Singapore increased by nearly 30 per cent. during 1950, as a result of increased frequency of inter-continental services, and of regional services connecting Singapore with the capitals of Burma, Indo-China, Siam, Hong Kong, India, Ceylon, Indonesia, and the Philippines.

Services operating through Singapore at 1st October, 1950, were:

A. INTERNATIONAL

| Operator          | Service                                      | Frequency       |
|-------------------|----------------------------------------------|-----------------|
| B.O.A.C./Q.E.A.   | United Kingdom to Australia via Middle East, India, Indonesia and return. | 4 services weekly. |
| Q.E.A.            | United Kingdom to Australia via Middle East, India, Ceylon, Indonesia and return. | Fortnightly.    |
| Q.E.A.            | Australia to Singapore and return             | Weekly.         |
| B.O.A.C.          | United Kingdom to Singapore via Middle East, India, Ceylon and return. | Twice weekly.   |
| B.O.A.C.          | United Kingdom to Singapore via Middle East, India, Burma and return. | Twice weekly.   |
| P.A.A.            | U.S.A. to Singapore via the Pacific, Philippines and return. | Weekly.         |
| K.L.M.            | Europe to Indonesia via Middle East, India, Siam and return. | Thrice weekly.  |

B. REGIONAL

| Operator                  | Service                                      | Frequency       |
|---------------------------|----------------------------------------------|-----------------|
| B.O.A.C.                  | Singapore–Hong Kong–Singapore                | Twice weekly.   |
| Cathay Pacific Airways    | Hong Kong–Bangkok–Singapore and return        | Twice weekly.   |
| Cathay Pacific Airways    | Hong Kong–Saigon–Singapore and return         | Weekly.         |
| Pacific Overseas Airlines (Siam). | Hong Kong–Bangkok–Singapore | Twice weekly.   |
| Malayan Airways           | Singapore–Penang–Bangkok and return           | Weekly.         |
| Malayan Airways           | Singapore–Saigon and return                   | Weekly.         |
| Malayan Airways           | Singapore–Penang–Mergui, Rangoon and return   | Weekly.         |
| Malayan Airways           | Singapore–Palembang and return                | Twice weekly.   |
| Malayan Airways           | Singapore–Penang–Medan and return             | Four times weekly. |
| Malayan Airways           | Singapore–Sarawak–North Borneo and return     | Thrice weekly.  |
| Siamese Airways           | Bangkok–Penang–Singapore and return           | Weekly.         |
| Air Ceylon                | Colombo–Singapore and return                  | Weekly.         |
| Air Ceylon                | Colombo–Singapore–Australia and return         | Fortnightly.    |
| Air France                | Saigon–Singapore and return                   | Weekly.         |
| Garuda Indonesian Airlines.| Various Indonesian ports to Singapore and return | Weekly.         |
Postal Services

The Postal Services Department of the Colony of Singapore under the Director of Posts, Singapore, forms part of the Postal Administration of Malaya administered by the Postmaster-General, Malaya, with headquarters at Kuala Lumpur.

All types of postal business are conducted at the General Post Office and at 18 other Post Offices on the island. The Post Office Savings Bank operates at all these offices and the amount of deposits is steadily increasing. Deliveries by postmen are made to all parts of the island and at the General Post Office there are also private boxes and a window delivery service.

The outlets for surface mails are gradually improving both in frequency and reliability and the average time of transit from Singapore to England is 26 days. Air mail services to all parts of the world are available, and a reliable internal air service also operates daily.

Telecommunications

The Telecommunications Department of the Colony of Singapore under the Director of Telecommunications, Singapore, forms part of the Pan Malayan Telecommunications Department of Malaya, administered by the Director-General of Telecommunications, Malaya, with headquarters at Kuala Lumpur.

The public telephone system is owned and operated by the Oriental Telephone and Electric Company, and has connections to the Malayan Trunking System through three channel telephone carrier systems.

Phonogram services are available on Singapore Island with direct telegraph and public teleprinter services to Kuala Lumpur, Ipoh and Penang, utilising voice frequency telegraph equipment. External radio telegraph services are maintained with Jesselton, Brunei, Kuching, Christmas Island and Bangkok. World wide cable facilities are available through Messrs. Cable & Wireless, Ltd. The Telecommunications Department is responsible for the operation and provision of aeradio telecommunication services for the Department of Civil Aviation and meteorological telecommunication services for the Department of Malayan Meteorological Services. A radio telegraph service with ships on high and medium frequencies is provided together with a short range ship to shore radio telephone service for small coastal craft. A two channel single side band service is being provided between Singapore and the United Kingdom, one channel for a radio telephone link and the other for high quality "Voice of Britain" transmissions for the Far Eastern Broadcasting Service.

Public Finance

Public Revenue for 1949 was $108,326,946 and expenditure was $92,925,221, making a surplus of $15,401,725. The revised estimate of revenue for 1950 is $110,488,210 and of expenditure for 1950 is $98,720,004, making a surplus of $11,768,206.

The chief sources of revenue in the approved estimates of 1949 were as follows:

| Source                  | Amount       |
|-------------------------|--------------|
| Income Tax              | $35,000,000  |
| Liquors Tax             | $11,000,000  |
| Entertainment Duties    | $2,750,000   |
| Petroleum               | $9,250,000   |
| Tobacco Duties          | $22,500,000  |

Singapore is a free port and there are therefore no tariffs, except from the duties on spirits, tobacco and petrol.

The chief items of expenditure in the 1949 estimates were as follows:

| Item         | Amount       |
|--------------|--------------|
| Public Debt  | $8,092,857   |
| Education    | $5,880,128   |
| Medical      | $9,982,717   |
| Police       | $8,276,364   |
| Public Works | $3,174,250   |
| Social Welfare| $1,861,443   |

Currency and Banking

The monetary unit is the Malayan dollar, the value of which was fixed at 2s. 4d. (Sterling) on 29th January, 1906. The currency notes are fully covered by a Currency Fund which consists of sterling in liquid form and sterling securities.

The following banks operate in Singapore, and form the Malayan Exchange Banks Association:

- Chartered Bank of India, Australia and China; Incorporated in London.
- Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation; Incorporated in Hongkong.
- Mercantile Bank of India, Ltd.; Incorporated in (London) England.
- Eastern Bank, Ltd.; Incorporated in London.
- National City Bank of New York; Incorporated in New York.
- Netherlands Trading Society; Incorporated in Amsterdam, Holland.
- Netherlands India Commercial Bank; Incorporated in Amsterdam, Holland.
- Banque de L'Indochine; Incorporated in Paris, France.
- Indian Overseas Bank, Ltd.; Incorporated in Madras, India.
- Overseas-Chinese Banking Corporation, Ltd., Incorporated in Singapore.
- Bank of China; Incorporated in Peking, China in 1911; Rechartered in 1935, present Head Office in Canton from 26 April, 1949.
- United Chinese Bank, Ltd.; Incorporated in Singapore.
- Sze Hai Tong Banking & Insurance Co., Ltd.; Incorporated in Singapore.
- Lee Wah Bank, Ltd.; Incorporated in Singapore.
- Ban Hin Lee Bank, Ltd.; Incorporated in Penang.
- Kwangtung Provincial Bank; Incorporated in Canton, China.
- Indian Bank, Ltd.; Incorporated in Madras, India.
- Overseas Union Bank, Ltd.; Incorporated in Singapore.
- American Express Co., Inc.

Non-Member Bank

Kwong Lee Banking Company.

External Trade

In 1949 Singapore's imports reached the value of $1,305 million (70·9 per cent. of the Pan-Malayan figure). The exports reached the value of $1,055 million (62·8 per cent. of the Pan-Malayan figure). The total value was therefore $2,360 million. These figures represent merchandise and exclude parcel post, bullion and coin.

In 1939, Singapore percentage of the total Malayan foreign trade in merchandise was approximately 67 per cent. for imports and 55 per cent. for exports.
The percentage of trade for 1948 was as follows:

| Imports | Exports | Total |
|---------|---------|-------|
| U.K.    | 15·9    | 11·9  | 14·0 |
| Other British countries | 22·1 | 21·9 | 22·0 |
| U.S.A.  | 14·1    | 20·5  | 17·1 |
| China   | 7·2     | 1·3   | 4·5  |
| N.E.I.  | 22·5    | 15·9  | 19·5 |
| Others  | 18·2    | 28·5  | 22·9 |

N.B.—Source of information: Malayan Statistics, 1948. Summary A.

**LIST OF GOVERNORS OF THE STRAITS SETTLEMENTS AND HIGH COMMISSIONERS FOR THE MALAY STATES**

1894 Lt.-Col. Sir Charles Bullen Hugh Mitchell, G.C.M.G.

1901 Sir Frank Athelstane Swettenham, G.C.M.G.

1904 Sir John Anderson, G.C.M.G.

1911 Sir Arthur Henderson Young, G.C.M.G., K.B.E.

1920 Sir Laurence Nunn Guillemard, G.C.M.G., K.C.B.

1927 Sir Hugh Charles Clifford, G.C.M.G., G.B.E.

1930 Sir Cecil Clementi, G.C.M.G.

1934–46 Sir Shenton Thomas, G.C.M.G., O.B.E.

**GOVERNOR OF SINGAPORE**

1946 Sir Franklin Charles Gimson, K.C.M.G.

**EXECUTIVE COUNCIL**

**Ex-officio Members**

H.E. The Governor—Chairman.

The Colonial Secretary.

The Attorney-General.

The Financial Secretary.

The President, Municipal Commissioners.

**Official Members**

Maj.-Gen. D. Dunlop (G.O.C., Singapore District).

A. Gilmour (Secretary for Economic Affairs).

**Unofficial Members**

Sir Han Hoe Lim.

E. M. F. Fergusson.

Tan Chin Tuan, C.B.E., J.P.

M. J. Namazie.

**LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL**

H.E. The Governor—President.

The Colonial Secretary.

The Attorney-General.

The Financial Secretary.

The President, Municipal Commissioners.

Dr. W. J. Vickers (Director of Medical Services).

A. Gilmour (Secretary for Economic Affairs).

J. A. Harvey (Commissioner of Lands).

C. H. Butterfield (Solicitor-General).

A. W. Frisby (Director of Education).

E. M. F. Fergusson (Member for the Singapore Chamber of Commerce).

Tan Chin Tuan, J.P. (Member for the Chinese Chamber of Commerce).

R. Jumabhoy (Member for the Indian Chamber of Commerce).

M. J. Namazie (First Member for Municipality North-East).

John Laycock, M.C. (Second Member for Municipality North-East).

C. C. Tan (First Member for Municipality South-West).

N. A. Mallal (Second Member for Municipality South-West).

Che Sardon b. H. Jubir (Member for Rural East).

Balwant Singh (Member for Rural West).

Thio Chan Bee, J.P.

A. McLellan, J.P.

P. F. de Souza.

Lim Yew Hock.

**FOREIGN CONSULAR OFFICERS**

Belgium—A. Graff (Consul).

Brazil—S. E. Travis (Honorary Consul).

China—Vacant.

Denmark—K. G. Lommer (Acting Consul).

Indonesia—Dr. M. Rasif (Consul-General).

Netherlands—J. van der Gaag (Consul-General).

Norway—Capt. J. M. Davidson (Consul).

Portugal—Jofre Manhao (Consul).

Spain—E. G. Jones (Honorary Vice-Consul).

Sweden—P. H. Hopkins (Honorary Consul).

Switzerland—F. Chatelan (Vice-Consul).

Siam—Luang Ratanadib (Consul-General).

France—A. Guibaut (Consul-General).

United States of America—William R. Langdon (Consul General).

Uruguay—L. D. Dymond (Honorary Vice Consul).

**SHORT SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY**

One Hundred Years of Singapore (two volumes) general editors: W. Makepeace, G. E. Brooke, R. St. J. Braddell Murray, 1921, 42s.

One Hundred Years’ History of the Chinese, by Song Ong Siang. Murray, 1923, 36s.

British Malaya—A Report on the 1931 Census, by C. A. Vlieland. Crown Agents for the Colonies, 1932, 12s.

The Lights of Singapore, by R. Braddell. Methuen, 1934, 1s. 6d.

A Dictionary of the Economic Products of the Malay Peninsula (two volumes), by I. H. Burkill. Crown Agents for the Colonies, 1935, 30s.

A History of Malaya, by Sir Richard Winstedt. Luzac, 1935, 8s. 6d.

British Rule in Eastern Asia: A study of contemporary government and economic development in British Malaya and Hong Kong, by L. A. Mills, O.U.P., 1942, 25s.

Raffles of Singapore, by R. Coupland. Collins, 1946, 1s. 6d.

A Social Survey of Singapore, by the Singapore Department of Social Welfare, 1948, $3

The War in Malaya, by A. E. Percival. Eyre & Spottiswoode, 1949, 16s.

**CIVIL ESTABLISHMENT**

Notes.—All salaries are quoted in Straits Dollars per mensem which may be converted to £ per annum by multiplying by 7/5. Revision of salaries is now under consideration.

Scale A is as follows:

\[
\begin{align*}
A.1 & \quad (350 : 400) \quad 450 \times 30 - 690/B/ \\
A.2 & \quad 510 \times 30 - 1,000
\end{align*}
\]

Scale B is as follows:

\[
\begin{align*}
B.1 & \quad 370 \\
B.2 & \quad 400 \\
B.3 & \quad 430 \times 30 - 670/B/720 \times 30 - 900. \\
B.4 & \quad 460 \\
B.5 & \quad 520
\end{align*}
\]

Scale C is as follows:

\[
\begin{align*}
C.1 & \quad (325 : 375 : 400) \quad 425 \times 25 - 625/B/ \\
C.2 & \quad 450 \times 25 - 825. \\
C.3 &
\end{align*}
\]
To the basic salaries, quoted above, expatriation pay, which is pensionable, is added in the case of expatriate officers according to the following table:

| Basic Salary | Expatriation Pay |
|--------------|------------------|
| Below $500 p.m. | 90 p.m.          |
| $500 to $825 p.m. | 150 p.m.        |
| Above $825 but below $930 p.m. | 165 p.m.       |
| $930 to $1,000 p.m. | 180 p.m.       |
| Above $1,000 but below $1,200 p.m. | 200 p.m.      |
| $1,200 and above but below $1,350 p.m. | 220 p.m.     |
| $1,350 and above | 240 p.m.        |

Officers, provided by Government with furnished quarters are charged rent; but, if not provided with quarters, are paid an allowance according to the following table:

| Basic Salary | Rent Allowance |
|--------------|----------------|
| $1,200 p.m. and over | 60 p.m.       |
| Over $900 and under | 45 p.m.       |
| $1,200 p.m. | 100 p.m.       |
| Over $700 to $900 p.m. | 30-35 p.m.   |
| Over $400 to $700 p.m. | 20 p.m.       |
| Over $320 to $400 p.m. | 15 p.m.       |
| Over $250 to $320 p.m. | 12 p.m.       |
| $180 to $250 p.m. | 9 p.m.         |
| $130 to but not including $180 p.m. | 7 p.m.       |
| $100 to but not including $130 p.m. | 5 p.m.       |
| Under $100 p.m. | 3 p.m.         |

A variable cost of living allowance, which is not pensionable, is at present payable,

(a) at the rate of 40 per cent. of basic salary up to a maximum of

(i) $120 p.m. for single officers,
(ii) $240 p.m. for married officers,
(iii) $300 p.m. for married officers with children,

Married women employees whose husbands are also in Government service, will receive a maximum allowance of $120 p.m. provided the combined allowances of husband and wife do not exceed $240 a month if they have no dependent children or $300 a month if they have one or more dependent children, plus

(b) a Singapore allowance at the rate of 20 per cent. of basic salary with a maximum of $60 a month for unmarried officers and $100 a month for all other Government employees in Singapore subject to a maximum combined allowance of $150 a month for a husband and wife who are both in Government Service.

These revised allowances are payable with effect from 1st July, 1950.

The salaries quoted below are in every case basic, excluding expatriation pay and allowances.

* Indicates appointment on contract.
** Indicates that an element for expatriation pay is included in salary per annum.
§ Indicates Colonial Administrative Service.

Governor and Personal Staff

Governor—Sir Franklin C. Gimson, K.C.M.G. £4,000, plus £2,500 allowance.
Private Secretary—J. L. M. Gorrie.
Aide-de-Camp—P. Heslop.

Administration

Colonial Secretary—W. L. Blythe. $1,700.
Financial Secretary—J. E. Pepper (acting). $1,450.
Secretary for Economic Affairs—A. Gilmour, C.M.G. $1,350.
Under Secretary—D. K. Daniels, O.B.E. $1,200.
Principal Assistant Secretary—C. R. Forsyth (acting). $1,050.
Principal Assistant Secretary, Social Services—Vacant. $1,050.
Deputy Financial Secretary—C. E. Gascoigne (acting). $1,050.
Deputy Financial Secretary (Reconstruction)—C. E. Gascoigne (acting). $1,050.
Principal Assistant Financial Secretary—M. C. Compton (acting). Scale A 1.
Deputy Secretaries for Economic Affairs—R. W. I. Band (acting); T. van der Gaast (acting). $1,050.
Assistant Secretaries—D. C. Horton, D.S.C.; F. L. Harley; V. E. Dawson; G. E. Bogaars, O.B.E.; W. Fox; L. W. Donough, M.B.E.; E. S. de Banzie; R. Maclean; R. B. I. Pates*; Mrs. M. J. Gibbs*; J. A. H. Gauntlett*; Mrs. B. K. Shanks*. Scale A 1.
Staff Grade A—W. L. Blythe; A. Gilmour, C.M.G. $1,350.
Class IA—J. A. Harvey; D. K. Daniels, O.B.E. $1,200.
Class IB—T. P. F. McNeice, O.B.E.; E. C. S. Adkins; G. W. Webb; J. E. Pepper; A. D. York. $1,050.
Class II—V—G. W. Davis; T. E. Hughes; K. A. Blacker; R. W. I. Band; C. W. Lyle; C. R. Forsyth; R. Middleton-Smith; D. C. Horton, D.S.C.; F. L. Harley; J. D. Haskins; V. E. Wilson; T. Van der Gaast; M. C. Compton; S. G. Burlock; C. R. D. Danby; C. H. F. Blake; P. S. Bolshaw; A. G. B. Colton; K. M. Byrne§; L. C. Goh§; D. A. Fyfe; A. H. Robson; D. P. Rees; W. Fox; E. S. de Banzie; Lee Siow Mong§; Hon Sui Sen§; L. W. Donough, M.B.E.§; J. L. M. Gorrie; R. Maclean; R. W. H. Reid; Kwa Soon Chuan§. Scale A 1.
Administrative Officers under Contract—N. Bradbury, M.C.; J. M. Devereux-Colebourn, T.D.; D. A. Stephen; R. Rendle; R. B. I. Pates; A. E. Norrish; C. G. Dickens; A. Baker; J. Wilson; J. Buckoke; E. F. Middleditch. Scale C.1.
Under Short Term Contract—Mrs. M. J. Gibbs; J. A. H. Gauntlett; A. W. Coles; Mrs. B. K. Shanks; E. L. 'E. Davies; L. E. K. Averill.

Agriculture

Agriculture—J. W. Ewart (acting). Scale B.3.

Audit

Deputy Director of Audit—E. H. C. Lillicrup $1,000.
Senior Auditor—W. H. Williams. $860–30A–950.
Auditors—P. R. Bridge; G. W. Collings. Scale C.1.

Broadcasting

Director of Broadcasting, Malaya—J. S. Dumeresque. $1,050.
Deputy Director of Broadcasting—F. N. Lloyd Williams*. $930.
Director of Engineering—G. S. Miller. $930.
Engineers—L. F. Lambert*; H. F. Mason*; E. Credgington*; N. J. A. Frigout; J. M. Anderson*. Scale B.3.
Programme Director—Vacant. Scale B.1.
English Programme Supervisor—H. H. Beamish. Scale B.1.

Programme Assistants—A. T. Read; R. V. F. Nancarrow*; R. S. Wild*; D. S. Kennard; D. J. Lyttle; T. Wood*; Miss R. M. Connery*; G. S. Raymond*. Scale B.1.

Junior Programme Assistants—Miss E. M. Morris*; Mrs. P. Stacey*; Mrs. A. Isherwood*. $320 \times 25-545/B/570 \times 25-720.

Chief Editor—A. A. Josey*. Scale B.1.

Assistant Editor—K. W. Sutton*. Scale B.1.

Sub-Editor—B. Hickley*. $320 \times 25-545/B/570 \times 25-720.

Chief Administrative Officer—D. A. Stephen*. Scale C.1.

Deputy Chief Administrative Officer—D. H. Meads. Scale C.1.

Record Librarian—V. Grosz*. $400 \times 25-800.

Research Librarian—Mrs. W. M. O’dell*. $320 \times 25-545/B/570 \times 25-720.

CHEMISTRY

Director of Chemistry, Malaya—M. Jamieson. $1,100.

Chief Chemist—A. W. Burtt. $930/960/1,000.

Chemists—W. Rintoul*; F. C. B. Marshall. Scale B.3.

CHINESE SECRETARIAT

Secretary for Chinese Affairs—E. C. S. Adkins, O.B.E. $1,050.

Assistant Secretary for Chinese Affairs—J. D. Haskins. Scale A.1.

CIVIL AVIATION

Director of Civil Aviation, Malaya—A. W. Savage. $1,350.

Chief Engineer and Licensing Officer—A. F. W. Andran. $930.

Chief Operation Officer—H. I. Wetherell (acting). $930.

Operation Officer—Vacant. Scale C.1.

Administrative Officer—R. Rendle*. Scale C.1.

Engineer and Licensing Officer—L. W. A. Osborne. Scale C.1.

Technical Officer—Vacant. Scale C.1.

Senior Signals Officer—A. W. Hayes. Scale C.1.

Air Traffic Control Officers, Grade I—F. E. N. Wills; F. H. Pollock; R. L. Milton; L. Holliday; E. E. Neilson; D. A. Noden; T. H. Hendra; R. Winder; J. Morgan; C. Talalla. Scale C.1.

Airport Manager—Vacant. Scale C.1.

Staff Pilot—Vacant. $800.

Aerodrome Fire Officer—Vacant. $420 \times 20-500 \times 25-600 \times 30-750.

COLONIAL SECRETARIAT

Organisation Secretary—Vacant. $1,050.

Secretary for Defence—Vacant. $1,200.

Assistant Secretary for Defence (Civil)—E. L. 'E. Davies*. $860 \times 30-900.

Secretary for Internal Affairs—J. C. Barry (acting). $1,050.

Assistant to the Principal Assistant Secretary, Secretariat—Vacant. $320 \times 20-400/B/430 \times 20-510/B/540 \times 20-600/B/625 \times 25-800.

Assistant Secretary in charge Confidential Branch, Secretariat—G. E. Bogaars, O.B.E. $600-30-750.

Public Relation Secretary—G. G. Thomson. $900.

Supervisor of Elections—Lee Siow Mong (acting). $625-25-800.

Assistant Secretary for Economic Affairs—A. W. Coles*. Scale C.1.

Assistant Secretary for Economic Affairs (Liaison with Indonesia)—L. E. K. Averill*. Scale C.1.

CUSTOMS

Comptroller of Customs—H. S. J. Lloyd. $1,050.

Assistant Comptrollers of Customs—R. S. Clemons; G. J. G. Pitt. $860 \times 30-950.

Senior Customs Officers and Customs Officers—M. B. C. Frend; J. A. Carr-Archer; K. S. Hellrich; J. H. S. Jenkins; W. F. Mavor; J. F. M. Roualle; H. G. D. Lewin; W. A. Rodick; L. J. B. Johnson; J. V. Lane; M. Killick; D. J. Mackay; M. J. Dean. Scale C.2.

EDUCATION

Director of Education—A. W. Frisby; R. M. Young (acting). $1,150.

Deputy Director of Education—E. H. S. Bretheron (acting). $1,000.

Principal, Teachers’ Training College—J. D. Joseph, M.B.E. (acting). $1,000.

Assistant Director of Education—R. W. Watson-Hyatt (acting). $930.

Superintendent of Physical Education—E. Strickland. Scale B.2.

Inspectors of Schools—P. S. Dempsey; A. Halliday. Scale B.2.

Group Supervisor—E. H. Price. Scale B.2.

Supervisor of Private Schools—N. I. Low. Scale B.2.

Assistant Supervisor of Private Schools—Vacant. Scale B.2.

Inspector of Chinese Schools—Li Chi Wa. Scale B.2.

Assistant Director of Education, Girls’ Schools—Vacant. $800.

Primary Supervisor (Woman)—Mrs. D. F. Atherton. $370 \times 25-545/B/570 \times 25-720.

Principal, Raffles Institution—E. H. Wilson. $1,000.

Headmaster, Victoria School—R. F. Bomford. $930.

Education Officers—K. M. R. Menon; P. F. Aroozoo; G. P. Darke; J. Le Prevost; Ting Siew Choon; R. Ellis; J. I. A. Fraser; P. K. Hernon*. Scale B.2.

Master of Music—G. Williams. Scale B.2.

Art Superintendent—Vacant. Scale B.2.

Principal, Raffles Girls’ School—Miss M. M. Hadley. $750.

Headmistress, Pearls Hill School—Miss R. M. Everson. $750.

Education Officers (Women)—Miss F. Goodland; Miss R. Russell; Mrs. N. Oehlers; Mrs. C. M. Piol; Miss J. Stocker; Mrs. L. E. Phillips*; Mrs. I. M. Malone*; Mrs. E. M. de St. Jorre*; Mrs. T. Murray*; Mrs. H. C. Simpson*; Mrs. M. S. Price*.

Superintendent, Trade School—E. Bray (acting). $750 \times 25-825.

Heads of Department, Teachers’ Training College—Vacant. Scale B.2.

ESTATE DUTIES

Commissioner of Estate Duties—Oon Khye Kiang (acting). $930/960/1,000.

Deputy Commissioner of Estate Duties—Oon Khye Kiang. $320 \times 20-400/B/430 \times 20-510/B/540 \times 20-600/B/625 \times 25-800.

Registrar of Trade Marks—A. H. Harrison. $900.

Deputy Registrar of Trade Marks—Vacant. $320 \times 20-400/B/430 \times 20-510/B/540 \times 20-600/B/625 \times 25-800.

FILM CENSORSHIP

Official Censor of Cinematograph Films, Malaya—J. Evans. $550 \times 25-750/B 800 \times 25-825.
FISHERIES
Fishery Officer—T. W. Burdon. Scale B.3.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE CONTROL
Controller of Foreign Exchange—J. E. Pepper (acting). $1,200.
Deputy Controller of Foreign Exchange—M. W. Himsworth*. $1,000.
Assistant Controllers of Foreign Exchange—F. S. Overton*; Lee Siow Mong; W. Gordon*; J. R. Foley*; Low Kok Pheng*; Miss C. Ansell*; Mrs. E. McInroy*. Scale C.1.
Administrative Officer—Tay Kim Tee. Scale C.1.

FORESTS
Forest Officer—C. Cairns. Scale B.2.

GARDENS, BOTANICAL
Director of Botanical Gardens—M. R. Henderson. $1,000.
Assistant Director of Botanical Gardens—Vacant. Scale B.2.
Curator of Herbarium—J. Sinclair*. Scale B.2.
Assistant Botanist—C. X. Furtado. Scale B.2.
Assistant Curator, Gardens—J. W. Ewart. $350 × 25–700.
Assistant Curator, Parks—G. H. Addison. $350 × 25–700.

IMMIGRATION AND PASSPORTS
Director of Immigration—G. W. Webb (acting). $1,200.
Controller of Immigration—J. L. J. Haxworth (acting). Scale A.1.
Deputy Controller of Immigration—F. Sharp (acting). Scale A.1.
Assistant Controllers of Immigration—G. D. A. Fox; T. Mackie; G. St. G. Farmer. Scale C.2.

IMPORTS AND EXPORTS CONTROL
Executive Controller of Imports and Exports—W. H. Walker. Scale C.3.
Assistant Executive Controllers of Imports and Exports—G. H. G. Barber*; C. W. B. Maddox*. $350 × 25–700.

INCOME TAX
Comptroller of Income Tax—D. H. Tudor (acting). $1,050.
Assistant Comptrollers of Income Tax—R. N. Stone; G. T. Holloway; J. Wilson*. $650 × 25–875.
Records Officer—Vacant. Scale C.1.
Public Liaison Officer—Lye Joon Seng. Scale C.1.

JUDICIAL
Chief Justice—Sir C. M. Murray Aynsley, K.B. $1,700.
Puisne Judges—L. E. C. Evans; W. J. Thorogood (acting). $1,350.
Registrar, Supreme Court—Tan Thoon Lip (acting). $1,050.
Deputy Registrar and Sheriff, Supreme Court—Tan Thoon Lip (C.L.S.). Scale A.2.
Deputy Registrar, Supreme Court—E. H. d’Netto*. Scale A.2.
District Judges—H. E. Kingdon; A. W. Bellamy; Tan Ah Tah; H. A. Forrer*. Scale A.2.
Magistrates—C. H. F. Blake; D. A. Fyfe. Scale A.1.
Magistrates—E. V. A. Peers*; S. E. Teh*; P. Clague*. Scale A.2.
Administrative Officer—A. G. Shears. Scale C.1.
Assistant District Judge—Vacant. $320 × 20–400/B/430 × 20–510/B/540 × 20–600/B/625 × 25–800.
Coroner—W. G. Porter. Scale C.1.
Assistant Coroner—Choor Singh. Scale C.1.

LABOUR
Commissioner for Labour—G. W. Davis (acting). $1,200.
Deputy Commissioner for Labour—C. W. Lyle (acting). £1,050.
Assistant Commissioners for Labour—R. Middleton-Smith (acting); A. G. B. Colton (acting); W. I. Galletly; Un Hon Kun (acting). Scale A.1.
Chief Inspector of Machinery—J. A. Heaton. Scale B.3.
Chief Personnel and Welfare Officer—Vacant. $650/675/700.
Inspectors of Machinery—W. Renfrew*. Scale B.3.
Registrar of Trade Unions—Sng Choon Yee, M.B.E.* Scale C.1.
Assistant Registrar of Trade Unions—Ho Cheong San. $350 × 25–700.

LAND AND DISTRICT OFFICES
Commissioner of Lands—J. A. Harvey. $1,200.
Collectors of Land Revenue—Hon Sui Sen (acting); S. G. Burlock. Scale A.1.
Assistant Collectors of Land Revenue—E. E. Ebert; Lim Keng Hong (acting). $320 × 20–400/B/430 × 20–510/B/540 × 20–600/B/625 × 25–800.
Architect and Building Surveyor—Vacant. Scale B.3.
Valuer and Assessor—Vacant. $930/960/1,000.
Deputy Valuer and Assessor—Vacant. $350 × 25–700.

LEGAL
Attorney-General—E. J. Davies, K.C.; C. H. Butterfield (acting). $1,450.
Solicitor-General—M. Buttrose (acting). $1,100.
Crown-Counsel—A. D. Farrell; L. Rayner; A. H. Simpson; E. P. Shanks; A. V. Winslow. Scale A.2.
Assistant to Attorney-General—Vacant. $320 × 20–400/B/430 × 20–510/B/540 × 20–600.

MARINE
Master Attendant—L. P. Lane, O.B.E., R.N. $1,050.
Deputy Master Attendant—W. H. Walmsley. Scale C.3.
Deputy Registrar of Shipping—C. J. Hindley. $450 × 25–700.
Engineer—L. Coulson. $450 × 25–700.
Deputy Registrar of Seamen—F. W. Jannings*. $600 × 25–650/B/675 × 25–800.

MARINE SURVEYS
Surveyor-General of Ships—A. Graham; D. D. Graham (acting). $1,050.
Senior Ship Surveyor—L. Irvine Brown (acting). Scale B.3.
Senior Ship and Engineer Surveyor—T. Thomson. Scale B.3.
Surveyors of Ships—L. Irvine Brown; J. H. McNeil; A. F. Jessiman; W. G. Christie. Scale B.3.

MEDICAL
Director of Medical Services—W. J. Vickers; R. D. Gross (acting). $1,150.
Deputy Director of Medical Services—J. Coutts-Milne. $1,050.
Chief Medical Officer—H. Scrimgeour. $1,000.
Pathological Branch

Senior Pathologist—C. Subrahmanyam. $930/960/1,000.
Assistant Pathologists—L. S. Silva; A. O. Aaron. Scale B.5.
Medical Officer (Jurisprudence)—Vacant. Scale B.5.

Blood Transfusion Service

Medical Officer—M. E. McClaren*. Scale B.5.

Health Branch

Chief Health Officer—G. H. Lowe. $1,000.
Deputy Chief Health Officer—Vacant. $930/960/1,000.
Health Officers—J. C. Burns; M. Doraisingham; Lim Poh Sim; Too Tung Ying; G. F. de Souza; A. Arulanandam; M. M. H. Gibson-Hill*; E. G. Porter*; Miss R. G. Gunatiilaka*. Scale B.5.
Lady Health Officer—Mrs. Sybil Kiani. Scale B.5.
Lady Medical Officer, Child Welfare Centre—Tan Jiak Hoon. Scale B.5.
Dental Officers—Vacant. Scale B.5.
Lady Dental Officer—P. M. Hill*. Scale B.5.

Quarantine Station

Health Officers—Vacant. Scale B.5.
Lady Health Officer—Vacant. Scale B.5.

Hospitals and Dispensaries

Surgeon—B. M. Johns. $930/960/1,000.
Ophthalmic Surgeon, Physician and Lecturer in Ophthalmology—A. D. Williamson. $930/960/1,000.
Radiologist—J. W. Winchester. $930/960/1,000.
T.B. Specialist—C. E. Smith (acting). $930/960/1,000.
Physician and Lecturer in Pediatrics—G. Haridas. $930/960/1,000.
Ophthalmologist—Vacant. Scale B.5.
Registrars—Vacant. Scale B.5.
Senior Anaesthetist—D. A. B. Hopkin. $930/960/1,000.
Dental Officers—G. C. Sandosham; Mrs. Ng Wood Kan. Scale B.5.
Assistant Anaesthetist—E. Morrison. Scale B.5.
Assistant Radiologist—F. Y. Khoo*. Scale B.5.
Medical Officers—W. A. Balhatchet; D. C. MacGilchrist; J. A. Tassis; K. Velasamy; Hannah Tan; Au Kee Hock; C. Marcus; Toh Chiong Hieng; Wong Kin Yip; Mrs. Wee Phiek Neo; Neoh Thean Soo; Miss Quah Quee Guan; P. R. Elliott*; Miss F. C. Jacob; S. N. Kapur; Miss Loh Siew Gek; A. F. de Souza*; Mrs. P. Martin*; Mrs. M. Chia Poteik*; J. Flinter*; P. M. Hewlett*; T. P. Loke*; H. L. Bannerji*. Scale B.5.
Pediatrics Specialist—Vacant. $930/960/1,000.
Senior E.N.T. Assistant Surgeon—Vacant. $930/960/1,000.
Senior Assistant Surgeons—Vacant. $930/960/1,000.
Senior Assistant Physicians—Vacant. $930/960/1,000.
Secretary, General Hospital—A. T. Meyer. $350 × 25–700.

Kandang Kerbau Maternity Hospital

Medical Superintendent—Vacant. $930/960/1,000.
Medical Officers—A. C. Sinha. Scale B.5.
Assistant Obstetrician—Elaine Chong. Scale B.5.
Assistant Anaesthetist—Awang bin Hassan*. Scale B.5.

Tuberculosis Clinic

Radiologist—F. Y. Khoo* (acting). $930/960/1,000.
Medical Officers—A. L. Greenway*. Scale B.5.

Mental Hospital

Medical Superintendent—J. Browne (acting). $930/960/1,000.
Assistant Medical Superintendent—J. Brown. Scale B.5.
Deputy Medical Superintendent—Vacant. $930/960/1,000.
Medical Officers—E. C. Winslow; Yap Meow Foo; R. T. Morrow*. Scale B.5.

Leper Settlement

Medical Officer—R. S. Corbitt*, Scale B.5.

Social Hygiene Branch

Senior Medical Officer—L. M. Ram (acting). $930/960/1,000.
Medical Officers—Koh Kim Yam; Mrs. Daisy Lee*; H. L. Bannerji. Scale B.5.

Government Medical Store

Superintending Pharmaceutical Chemist—W. Stout. Scale B.2.

Meteorological Services

Director of Meteorological Services—H. B. F. Moorhead. $1,100.
Assistant Director of Meteorological Services—C. A. Lea. $930.
Meteorological Officers—I. G. John; N. Bloom; P. Peterson; J. R. Scott. Scale B.2.
Assistant Meteorological Officers—K. C. Koruthu; W. G. Midowicz. $350 × 25–700.

Military

Officer-in-Charge, V.F.R.O.—J. A. Marshall*. Scale C.1.
Staff Officer, M.R.N.V.R.—J. A. Marshall*. Scale C.1.

Malayan Currency Commission

Chief Currency Officer—C. G. Dickens. Scale C.1.

Museum and Library, Raffles

Director of Raffles Museum and Library—M. W. F. Tweedie. $1,000.
Curator—H. D. Collings. Scale B.3.
Assistant Curator—C. A. Gibson-Hill. Scale B.3.
Librarian—Mrs. W. Hatcher*. $350 × 25–700.

Official Assignee

Official Assignee—D. H. Chapman (acting). Scale A.2.
Assistant Official Assignees—D. H. Chapman; T. Kulasekaram*. Scale A.2.

Police

Commissioner of Police—R. E. Foulger, C.M.G. $1,350.
Deputy Commissioners of Police—R. C. B. Wiltshire (acting); W. J. Parks (acting). $1,050.
Assistant Commissioners of Police—N. G. Morris; D. K. Broadhurst, D.S.O. (acting); A. R. Anderson (acting). $1,000.
Superintendents—K. L. Johnson (acting); D. E. Nickels (acting); C. W. Byrde (acting); C. J. A. Haines (acting); E. V. Smith (acting); F. G. Minns (acting). $860 × 30–950.
Assistant Superintendents—A. McLennan; J. E. Jeans; A. R. McEwan; C. J. R. Bembroke; B. Lewis; T. H. Allen; M. Boyle; G. D. Hunter-Gray; L. R. Prynn; J. W. Chilton; A. C. Good; A. E. Minns; E. T. J. Bunnens; E. J. Linsell; R. B. Corridon; J. H. Davies; B. W. F. Goodrich; R. C. Hoy; N. V. B. Wilmshurst; D. N. Turner; Song Kok Hoo; Sardar Singh; A. T. Rajah; John Le Cain; Cheah Teng Cheoh; Eu Cheow Eang; J. K. Kerr; Mohd. Amin b. Mohd. Jamil; A. Ananda Rajah; J. E. Fairbairn; T. F. Flynn; H. R. Turner, M.C.; M. L. Abrams; B. St. J. Hickman; A. T. Bevan; A. J. E. Longden; B. J. Bleasdale; R. A. H. Cowan; A. D. C. Buckell; G. C. Matthews; R. Westlake, D.S.C.; E. F. B. Brooksmith; S. D. M. Jepson; G. T. O. Martin; R. A. Little; O. Lewis; J. G. Watson; P. S. Leathart; J. Sanderson; P. Rajaratnam; Ee Sim Mong; Giam Chong Hing. Scale C.2.

Archivist—W. T. Knott. Scale C.1.

Postal Services

Director of Posts—D. Smith. $1,000.

Assistant Controllers of Posts—C. E. Salton; L. G. Murray; S. M. Denton; A. G. Crook. Scale C.1.

Accountant—V. A. Fish. Scale C.1.

Printing

Government Printer—V. C. G. Gatrell. $750 × 25–900.

Deputy Government Printer—F. R. Vine. $600 × 25–750.

Prisons

Commissioner of Prisons—G. E. W. W. Bayly. $960.

Superintendent—A. W. Clow. Scale C.1.

Public Works

Director of Public Works—E. A. Gardiner. $1,150.

Deputy Director of Public Works—Vacant. $1,000.

Superintending Engineer, Airport—J. J. Bryan. $930.

Government Architect—D. Cuthbertson. $1,000.

Deputy Government Architect—K. A. Brundle (acting). $930.

Senior Executive Engineers—R. J. Hollis-Bee; J. Cumming (acting). $930.

Executive Engineers—F. V. Murdock; R. R. Cambridge. Scale B.3.

Assistant Engineers—D. Brown; F. J. Howe; G. S. Glaister; N. C. Hojgaard; J. W. Coelho; H. J. Tennent. Scale B.3.

Senior Executive Electrical Engineer—L. K. Jones (acting). $930.

Assistant Electrical Engineer—C. Y. K. Wong*. Scale B.3.

Architects—P. M. Barnes; A. J. A. Wallwork. Scale B.3.

Quantity Surveyor—R. H. Ricketts. Scale B.3.

Assistant Engineer (Engineering Design)—E. J. Walshe. Scale B.3.

Administrative Officer—F. I. Storkey*. Scale C.1.

Superintendent of Stores and Furniture—W. G. Smith. $400 × 25–700.

Mechanical Engineer—G. Donald. Scale B.3.

Social Welfare

Secretary for Social Welfare—T. Eames Hughes (acting). $1,050.

Deputy Secretary for Social Welfare—L. C. Goh (acting). Scale A.1.

Deputy Secretary for Social Welfare—Rev. J. T. N. Handy*. $400.

Assistant Secretaries for Social Welfare—C. R. D. Danby; C. E. MacCormack*; Tan Kay Hai; J. Buckoke*; C. S. Dant; E. F. Middleditch*. Scale C.1.

Superintendent, Bukit Timah Boys Home—F. R. Ridley*. Scale C.1.

Probation Officer—F. J. M. Briggs*. $600.

Juvenile Court Magistrate—Vacant. (P. Samy, C.B.E., Honorary Magistrate.) $320 × 20–400/B/430 × 20–510/B/540 × 20–600–625 × 25–800.

Camp Commandant—Vacant. Scale C.1.

Lady Assistant Secretary—Vacant. $320 × 25–545/B/570 × 25–720.

Statistics

Registrar of Malayan Statistics—E. J. Phillips. $1,050.

Assistant Registrar of Malayan Statistics—Robert Dow. Scale B.2.

Assistant Registrar of Malayan Statistics—L. A. Joseph. $320 × 20–400/B/430 × 20–510/B/540 × 20–600/B/625 × 25–800.

Statistical Assistant—S. C. Chua. $350 × 25–700.

Assistant Commercial Intelligence Officer—Tan Peng Liat. $350 × 25–700.

Assistant Registrar of Imports and Exports—V. N. Wade. $350 × 25–700.

Survey

Chief Surveyor—A. Graham; H. L. Ward (acting). $1,000.

Deputy Chief Surveyor—A. L. M. Greig (acting). $930.

Surveyors—A. R. de Vries. Scale B.3.

Telecommunications

Director of Telecommunications—G. C. O'Farrell (acting). $1,050.

Controller of Telecommunications—Vacant. $960.

Assistant Controllers of Telecommunications—R. J. Boast; R. H. Fifield; H. J. A. Gutridge; M. D. O'Hare; E. R. C. L. Thomas; J. C. Merron. Scale B.3.

Trade Unions

Assistant Trade Union Adviser—A. G. D. Simpson. Scale C.1.

Treasury

Accountant-General—J. H. Newbigging (acting). $1,000.

Accountants, Chartered or Incorporated—G. Hilton; W. G. Collings; C. G. Dickens*; A. Baker*. Scale B.3.

Assistant to the Accountant-General—Vacant. $320 × 20–400/B/430 × 20–510/B/540 × 20–600–625 × 25–800.

Veterinary

Chief Veterinary Officer—R. A. Wright (acting). $930.
