Colony: Sierra Leone
Year: 1955
Section: Communications
Type: narrative
---
Communications

Freetown Airport (Lungi) is the only international airport in the territory and is operated by the Government Department of Civil Aviation. Air Services are operated through Freetown Airport by Air France, Hunting-Clan/Airwork Services and West African Airways Corporation. They connect Sierra Leone to the three other British West African Colonies and provide a thrice-weekly service to and from the United Kingdom and other countries in Europe. Meteorological services are available and are a part of the British West African Meteorological Service with headquarters at Lagos.

The railway carried 1,037,980 passengers and 126,759 tons of freight in 1953. The gauge of the railway is 2 ft. 6 in. and the mileage maintained (including sidings) totalled 337. This mileage included a branch line covering a distance of 82½ miles. The Marampa railway (3 ft. 6 in. gauge) is operated by the Sierra Leone Development Company Limited for the purpose of carrying iron ore from Marampa to Pepel, a distance of 57½ miles.

There are 2,663 miles of road (1953)—bituminous surface 110 miles, gravel or earth surface, 2,553 miles.

Freetown is a port of British Shipping Registry, four miles up the Sierra Leone River and has one of the finest harbours in Africa. Smaller ports are at Pepel, Bonthe and Sulima. Pepel is a loading port for iron ore from the Marampa mines. Bonthe and Sulima are loading ports for local produce such as palm kernels, palm oil and piassava. Passenger and cargo services to the United Kingdom are provided by Elder Dempster Lines, Limited, and Palm Line, Limited, and to the Continent by Holland West Africa Line. A limited cargo service to the east coast ports of America is provided by Elder Dempster Lines, Limited, and the Barber Steamship Lines, and to South Africa by J. P. Holmen, Limited, and Elder Dempster Lines, Limited.

The total of inland waterways is approximately 493 miles but several of these rivers are only navigable for three months of the year when the rivers are in flood. A considerable amount of local produce is transported to Freetown by launches from the Great and Little Scarcies River in the north and Bonthe River to the south.
