Colony: Sierra Leone
Year: 1910
Section: High Commission.
Type: narrative
---
High Commission.

The office of High Commissioner in and for South Africa was created by Letters Patent in 1878. In 1879 a second High Commissioner was appointed, to whom was assigned South-Eastern Africa, including Zululand and Amatongaland; but this arrangement ceased in 1881, when a Special Commissioner for Zulu affairs was appointed, who was also Governor of Natal (which now includes Zululand and Amatongaland). The High Commissioner for South Africa, who, under the Commission of 1889, was the officer for the time being administering the Government of the Cape, represents the Crown in all matters occurring in South Africa beyond the limits of the Colonies properly so called. He was, till 1899, charged with the conduct of British relations with the South African Republic (Transvaal) and the Orange Free State, as well as those with native states and tribes outside the Colonies of the Cape and Natal, including Swaziland, which was administered by the Government of the South African Republic under the Convention of 1894.

The High Commissioner is Governor of Basutoland, supervises the affairs of the Bechuanaland Protectorate and of Swaziland, and exercises the control provided by Order in Council over the Administration of the British South Africa Company in Southern and in North-Western Rhodesia. The Southern Rhodesia Order in Council, 1898, provides for a control by the High Commissioner over legislation, important appointments, and Native affairs in Rhodesia, and for the appointment of a Resident Commissioner, who is paid from Imperial funds and acts as the local representative of the High Commissioner and the Imperial Government. The High Commissioner is empowered to invite conferences of representatives of the South African Colonial Governments to meet for the discussion of matters of common interest. The office of High Commissioner, which was formerly held by the Governor of Cape Colony, was, by a Commission dated Oct. 6th, 1900, vested in Lord Milner, and by a similar Commission, dated March 15th, 1905, in Lord Selborne, who is also Governor of the Transvaal.
