Colony: Sierra Leone
Year: 1933
Section: General Description.
Type: narrative
---
General Description.

The peninsula of Sierra Leone is about 25 miles in length, and from 10 to 12 miles in breadth at its widest part. It is one of the few points on the African coast where there is high land near the sea. It is formed by a range of igneous mountains, running parallel to these from N.N.W. to S.S.E., the summits of which, in the Picket Hill, Sugar Loaf and Leicester Mountains, rise in conical form to a height of from 2,000 to 3,000 feet. The mountains are composed principally of norite, and are thickly wooded. They are intersected by ravines and small valleys, and there are considerable tracts of level ground, especially on the eastern side of the peninsula, where it sinks to the mainland.

The configuration of the Protectorate varies much in different localities. The coastal strip is flat and low-lying and the river estuaries, below high tide mark, are bounded by extensive mangrove swamps. The western and southern part of the Protectorate consists of rolling wooded country, broken in places by ranges of hills rising to 1,000 ft. or more. The ground rises to the north and east to form an upland plateau having a general elevation of about 1,500 ft. The Sula and Kangari hills rise to nearly 3,000 ft., while to the east, near the French Guinea frontier, Bintumane Peak and the summits of the Binwa range rises to above 6,000 ft. Unlike many regions on the West Coast of Africa the country is well watered by rivers and streams. The principal rivers of Sierra Leone which empty themselves into the Atlantic Ocean are the Great and Little Scarcies, the Rokel or Sell, the Tong or Taia, the Ribbi, the Bum or Sewa, the Moa and the Mano, most of which are navigable by small craft for several miles.

The capital, Freetown, lies about four miles up the Sierra Leone River, at the foot of a chain of hills rising 2,900 feet above the sea. In 1931 it contained 56,389 inhabitants. It possesses the best harbour in West Africa, and is an important coaling station and a port of registry.

The peninsula of Sierra Leone and the lands immediately adjoining have a population (including Freetown and its Districts) of 96,422. It yields only a small quantity of exportable commodities, but ginger and coffee thrive if well looked after. The extent of the territory is, however, small (256 square miles), and the generally rocky soil is not very well adapted for cultivation.

Considerable quantities of palm kernels, palm oil, piasava, with other articles of lesser importance are exported via Bonthe in the Southern Province.

Many districts in the Protectorate are fertile and well adapted to the growth of oil palms, cocoanuts, bene seed, kola nuts, gum-producing trees, ginger, cocoa, rice, and other tropical products.

Alluvial platinum deposits occur near York, and are being worked on a small scale. Alluvial gold deposits are being worked in the Protectorate and are giving encouraging results.

Chromite has been discovered in several parts of the Protectorate and the most promising deposit, occurring in the Kambui Hills near Hangha, is being actively prospected.

A recently discovered deposit of diamonds in Kono District is now being prospected. Diamonds have also been found in the Kenema District.

Deposits of iron ore have been discovered, and steps are being taken to work and export the ore on a large scale.