Colony: Sierra Leone
Year: 1905
Section: High Commission.
Type: narrative
---

The office of High Commissioner in and for South Africa was created by Letters Patent in 1878. In 1879 a second High Commissioner was appointed, to whom was assigned South-Eastern Africa, including Zululand and Amatongaland; but this arrangement ceased in 1881, when a Special Commissioner for Zulu affairs was appointed, who was also Governor of Natal (which now includes Zululand and Amatongaland). The High Commissioner for South Africa, who, under the Commission of 1889, was the officer for the time being administering the Government of the Cape, represents the Crown in all matters occurring in South Africa beyond the limits of the Colonies properly so called. He was, till 1899, charged with the conduct of British relations with the South African Republic (Transvaal) and the Orange Free State, as well as those with native states and tribes outside the Colonies of the Cape and Natal, including Swaziland, which was administered by the Government of the South African Republic under the Convention of 1894.

The High Commissioner is Governor of Basutoland, and supervises the affairs of the Bechuanaland Protectorate, and he exercises the control provided by Order in Council over the Administration of the British South Africa Company in Southern Rhodesia (i.e., south of the Zambesi). The Southern Rhodesia Order-in-Council, 1898, provides for a control by the High Commissioner over legislation, important appointments, and Native affairs in Rhodesia, and for the appointment of an Imperial Resident Commissioner, who is the subordinate of the High Commissioner, and of an Imperial Commandant of the armed forces, the control of which was taken away from the Company after Dr. Jameson's raid into the Transvaal, and placed under the High Commissioner. By a revised Commission, issued in 1900, the High Commissioner was empowered to invite conferences of representatives of the South African Colonial Governments to meet for the discussion of matters of common interest. Lord Milner, who is Governor of the Transvaal and Orange River Colony, also holds the office of High Commissioner, which has been separated from the Governorship of the Cape Colony. An Order in Council, dated May 20, 1903 (amended by further Order in Council of 1904), established an Inter-Colonial Council to deal with the administration of the Central South African Railways, the expenditure on the South African Constabulary, and certain other expenses common to the Transvaal and Orange River Colony. The Council consists of the High Commissioner and Governor (President), the Lieut.-Governors of the Transvaal and Orange River Colony, the Inspector-General of the S.A.C., and the Commissioner of Railways, with eighteen other members representing the Governments of the two Colonies, and three others, of whom two are nominated by the Secretary of State and one by the High Commissioner and Governor. For the proceedings of the Council see "Transvaal." The Council has appointed a Railway Committee, which sits weekly at Johannesburg and Bloemfontein.

