Colony: Sierra Leone
Year: 1960
Section: Communications
Type: narrative
---
Communications

Freetown Airport (Lungi) is the international airport, and is operated by the Government Department of Civil Aviation. Scheduled Air Services are operated by Air France, Ghana Airways, Hunting-Clan/Airwork Services, Nigerian Airways and U.A.T. They connect Sierra Leone to other parts of West Africa and provide at least seven services a week to and from Europe.

Air and marine navigational aids, and aeradio and meteorological radio services, are also provided.

The railway carried 1,596,332 passengers and 133,886 tons of freight in 1958. The gauge of the railway is 2 ft. 6 in. and the mileage maintained (including sidings) totalled 339. This mileage includes a branch line covering a distance of 83½ miles. The Marampa railway (3 ft. 6 in. gauge) is operated by the Sierra Leone Development Company Limited for the purpose of carrying iron ore from Marampa to Pepel, a distance of 57½ miles.

There are 3,442 miles of road, 1,642 miles of first class roads maintained by the Public Works Department and 1,800 miles of roads maintained by local Government bodies and private companies. Freetown, a port of British Shipping Registry, has anchorage room for 240 ships of unrestricted draught and berths for two large or three small ships alongside the new Queen Elizabeth II Quay, which is 1,206 feet long with a depth of 32 feet of water at Mean Low Water Ordinary Springs. Oil bunkers can be obtained by ships alongside the Quay, and ships also berth alongside the nearby Kissy Oil Jetty for oil bunkers, or to discharge various types of fuel into the Oil Storage Company's tanks. Smaller ports are at Pepel and Bonthe. Pepel is a loading port for iron ore from the Marampa mines; Bonthe is a loading port for local produce such as palm kernels, palm oil and piassava. Regular passenger and cargo services to the United Kingdom are provided by Elder Dempster Lines Limited and Palm Lines Limited. Twenty-four other shipping lines provide services to the Continent, the Middle East, South Africa, India, the Far East and America.

The total of inland waterways is approximately 493 miles but several of these rivers are only navigable for three months of the year when the rivers are in flood. A considerable amount of local produce is transported to Freetown by launches from the Great and Little Scarcies River in the north and Bonthe River to the south.
