Colony: Sierra Leone
Year: 1954
Section: Communications
Type: narrative
---
Communications

Freetown Airport (Lungi) is the only international airport in the territory and is operated by the Government Department of Civil Aviation. Air services are operated through Freetown Airport by Air France and West African Airways Corporation. The latter connects Sierra Leone to the other three British West African territories and provides a twice-weekly service to the United Kingdom connecting with the B.O.A.C. South American trunk route at Dakar. Meteorological services are available and are a part of the British West African Meteorological Service with headquarters at Lagos.

The railway carried 1,248,409 passengers and 126,213 tons of freight in 1952. The gauge of the railway is 2 ft. 6 in. and the mileage maintained (including sidings) totalled 337. This mileage included a branch line covering a distance of 82½ miles. The Marampa railway (3 ft. 6 in. gauge) is operated by the Sierra Leone Development Company Limited for the purpose of carrying iron ore from Marampa to Pepel, a distance of 57½ miles.

There are 2,375 miles of road (1952)—bituminous surface 103 miles, gravel or earth surface, 2,272 miles.

Freetown is a port of British Shipping Registry, four miles up the Sierra Leone River and has one of the finest harbours in Africa. Smaller ports are at Pepel, Bonthe and Sulima. In 1951 and 1952 some 2,650,000 tons and 2,700,000 tons respectively of shipping used the port of Freetown. Pepel is a loading port for iron ore from the Marampa mines; Bonthe and Sulima are loading ports for local produce such as palm kernels, palm oil and piassava. Passenger and cargo services to the United Kingdom are provided by Elder Dempster Lines, Limited, and Palm Line, Limited, and to the Continent by Holland West Africa Line. A limited cargo service to the east coast ports of America is provided by Elder Dempster Lines, Limited, and the Barber Steampship Lines, and to South Africa by J. P. Holmen, Limited, and Elder Dempster Lines, Limited.

The total of inland waterways is approximately 493 miles but several of these rivers are only navigable for three months of the year when the rivers are in flood. A considerable amount of local produce is transported to Freetown by launches from the Great and Little Scarcies River in the north and Bonthe River to the south.
