Colony: Sierra Leone
Year: 1937
Section: General Description.
Type: narrative
---
General Description.

The peninsula of Sierra Leone is about 25 miles in length, and from 10 to 12 miles in breadth at its widest part. It is one of the few points on the African coast where there is high land near the sea. It is formed by a range of igneous mountains, running parallel to the sea from N.N.W. to S.S.E., the summits of which, in the Picket Hill, Sugar Loaf and Leicester Mountains, rise in conical form to a height of from 2,000 to 3,000 feet. The mountains are composed principally of norite, and are thickly wooded. They are intersected by ravines and small valleys, and there are considerable tracts of level ground, especially on the eastern side of the peninsula, where it sinks to the mainland.

The configuration of the Protectorate varies much in different localities. The coastal strip is flat and low-lying and the river estuaries, below high tide mark, are bounded by extensive mangrove swamps. The western and southern part of the Protectorate consists of rolling wooded country, broken in places by ranges of hills rising to 1,000 ft. or more. The ground rises north and east to form an upland plateau, with a general elevation of about 1,500 ft. Tum and Kangari hills rise to nearly 3,000 ft. to the east, near the French Guinea line. Bintumane Peak and the summits of the range rise to above 6,000 ft. Unlike regions on the West Coast of Africa the coast is well watered by rivers and streams. The principal rivers of Sierra Leone which empty themselves into the Atlantic Ocean are the and Little Scarcies, the Rokel or Selu (Sierra Leone river), the Jong or Taia, the Kombo, Bum or Sewa, the Moa and the Mano, which are navigable by small craft for 100 miles.

The capital, Freetown, lies about from up the Sierra Leone River, at the foot of the hills rising 2,900 feet above the sea. It contained 54,958 inhabitants. It possesses the best harbour in West Africa, and is an important coaling station and a port of registry.

The peninsula of Sierra Leone and the lands immediately adjoining have a population (including Freetown and its Districts) of 90,885. It yields only a small quantity of exportable commodities, but ginger and coffee thrive if well looked after. The extent of the territory is, however, small (256 square miles), and the generally poor soil is not very well adapted for cultivation.

Considerable quantities of palm kernels, palm oil, piasava, with other articles of less importance are exported via Bonthe in the Southern Province.

Many districts in the Protectorate are flat and well adapted to the growth of oil palms, nuts, beniseed, kola nuts, gum-producing trees, ginger, cocoa, rice, and other tropical produce. Alluvial platinum deposits occur near Y., and are being worked on a small scale. Also gold in the Protectorate has attracted both companies and individuals. Gold mining is being actively pursued and is already of great value to the country.

Chromite has been discovered in several parts of the Protectorate and the most promising deposit occurs in the Kambui Hills near Harb, but is not at present attracting much interest. Diamonds are being mined in the Kono District and now form a very important industry in the country.

Two large deposits of iron ore occur and exploration on a large scale has commenced from Marampa. Preliminary work is now being undertaken in connection with the second, known as the Tori Hill deposits.

The native population of the Protectorate is estimated at 1,672,057 and is composed of the following tribes:

Northern Province: Temnes, Limbas, Soga, Lokos, Fulas, Mangoros, Korankos, Yalunkas.

Southern Province: Mendes, Sherbroes, Koma, Krima, Gallinas, Gola, Vais, Kissis.
