Colony: Sierra Leone
Year: 1956
Section: Main Crops and Products
Type: narrative
---
Main Crops and Products

The main crops and products are palm kernels and palm oil, piasava, rice, cocoa, coffee, groundnuts, cassava, benniseed, Kola-nuts, bananas and ginger.

The livestock population (rough estimate) is: cattle 150,000, goats 25,000, sheep 10,000, pigs 4,000.

The main timber products are sawn timber, shingles, roundwood, firewood, charcoal and gum copal. Sawn timber is not available for export but small quantities of gum copal and charcoal are exported.

Inshore fishing by African fishermen is extensive but insufficient to meet the demand in Freetown and the Protectorate. Two Italian trawlers have recently begun operations from Freetown.

The Headquarters of the West African Fisheries Research Institute are situated at Kissy, near Freetown. The Institute's two research launches are undertaking the survey of the Sierra Leone River estuary. Two other estuaries North and South of Freetown are also being explored for possible fishing grounds.

The chief minerals mined are iron-ore, diamonds and chrome ore. Small quantities of gold are also found. Production in 1954 was:

- Diamonds: 400,605 carats
- Chromite: 18,343 tons
- Gold: 238 ozs. (troy)

Other minerals known to occur in Sierra Leone are platinum, ilmenorutile, lignite, cassiterite and molybdenite.

Eight pioneer oil mills for the expressing of palm oil are operated by the Sierra Leone Produce Marketing Board. An oil-expressing plant for the production of groundnut oil and palm kernel oil is being operated experimentally by Government. Government also operates two small and two large rice mills and there are a number of privately-owned mills. Connected with the Government rice mills is the complementary enterprise of pig and poultry feed production.

Furniture making is carried on by Government and private enterprise.

Village industries include fishing, fish curing and smoking, weaving, and hand methods of expressing palm oil and cracking palm kernels.
