Colony: Sierra Leone
Year: 1957
Section: Communications
Type: narrative
---
Communications

Freetown Airport (Lungi) is the only international airport in the territory and is operated by the Government Department of Civil Aviation. Air Services are operated through Freetown Airport by Air France, Hunting-Clan/Airwork Services and West African Airways Corporation. They connect Sierra Leone to other parts of West Africa and provide a thrice-weekly service to and from the United Kingdom and other countries in Europe.

Air and marine navigational aids, and aeradio and meteorological radio services, are also provided.

The railway carried 1,352,620 passengers and 95,403 tons of freight in 1955. The gauge of the railway is 2 ft. 6 in. and the mileage maintained (including sidings) totalled 339. This mileage included a branch line covering a distance of 83½ miles. The Marampa railway (3 ft. 6 in. gauge) is operated by the Sierra Leone Development Company Limited for the purpose of carrying iron ore from Marampa to Pepel, a distance of 57½ miles.

There are 2,963 miles of road, 1,574 miles of trunk roads motorable throughout the year, and 1,389 miles of feeder roads.

Freetown is a port of British Shipping Registry, four miles up the Sierra Leone River and has one of the finest harbours in Africa. It is an oil-bunkering station for ocean-going vessels. Smaller ports are at Pepel, Bonthe and Sulima. Pepel is a loading port for iron ore from the Marampa mines; Bonthe and Sulima are loading ports for local produce such as palm kernels, palm oil and piassava. Passenger and cargo services to the United Kingdom are provided by Elder Dempster Lines, Limited, and Palm Line, Limited, and to the Continent by Holland West Africa Line. A limited cargo service to the east coast ports of America is provided by Elder Dempster Lines, Limited, and the Barber Steamship Lines, and to South Africa by J. P. Holmen, Limited, and Elder Dempster Lines, Limited.

The total of inland waterways is approximately 493 miles but several of these rivers are only navigable for three months of the year when the rivers are in flood. A considerable amount of local produce is transported to Freetown by launches from the Great and Little Scarcies River in the north and Bonthe River to the south.

Broadcasting