Colony: Sierra Leone
Year: 1886
Section: § I. Salaries.
Type: narrative
---
§ I. Salaries.

104. On appointments to Offices, half salary, when so disposable by law, will be allowed, as a general rule, from the date of embarkation and full salary from the date of arrival in the Colony: Provided that the Officer proceeds direct to the Colony to which he is appointed, otherwise he will be allowed to draw half salary for such time only as ordinarily elapses between the departure of the mail (if any) from the point of embarkation and its arrival in the Colony; or if there be no mail route between his point of embarkation and his point of arrival in the Colony, for such time as is ordinarily required to perform the journey between such two points.

105. If, however, the Office is a new one, or if for any other reason there is no person drawing salary in respect of it, full salary may in special cases be allowed from the date of embarkation. It, on the other hand, the Officer previously holding the appointment in the Colony continues in the tenure of his Office until the arrival of his Successor, the latter Officer will not be entitled to any portion of salary until he has assumed the duties of his Office.

106. No advance of salary is allowed, except in very special cases, to be determined by the Secretary of State; and the Officer to whom it may be granted must sign an agreement with the Crown Agents in the form inserted in the Appendix.* (Page 339.)

107. If any Office be vacant, in any Colony, by the death or removal of the holder, or by his temporary absence, the person appointed by the Governor to act in his stead will receive half the salary of the Office. Should such person be the holder of another situation, but not performing the duties of it, he may receive half the salary of the Office in which he is so appointed to act, together with half the salary of his own Office.

108. Should the person so appointed by the Governor to a vacant Office be required at the same time to perform the duties of his own Office, he may be allowed half the salary of the temporary Office, together with the whole salary of his own Office; but as a general rule no person should be appointed to discharge at the same time the duties of two distinct Offices, whenever any other arrangement may be practicable.

109. The fees of the vacant Office (in the absence of any usage or law to the contrary) should be paid into the Colonial Treasury, from whence the acting Officer will receive one moiety, with such further portion as the Governor shall consider advisable, in case the services performed are of a special character or involve outlay.

110. Should the Officer whom the Governor has appointed temporarily to a vacant Office be confirmed in the situation, he will be entitled to draw the full salary of that Office from the date at which he entered on the duties, if no portion of the salary during that period has been drawn by the former occupant of the Office; but from the date from which he draws such full salary, he will not be entitled to salary on account of any other Office which he may have held at the same time.

111. If any Colonial Officer desires part of his salary to be paid by the Crown Agents in this country, he must give his assent in writing to the following condition, viz., that the proposed part payment shall in no case be made until the Crown Agents have been furnished with a certificate from the proper Colonial authority to the effect that the Officer continued to hold his appointment during the period for which such part payment is claimed.†

112. The Colonial Government, on timely application from the Officer, is to transmit such a certificate to the Crown Agents, furnishing the Officer with a duplicate.†

113. The following Rules are to be observed in regard to the salary to be drawn by Officers appointed to the provisional administration of Governments, or transferred from one Government to another:

Whenever the Government of a Colony may be vacated by the death, recall, or resignation of the holder of it, or when the Governor may be absent on leave, the person succeeding to the administration of the Government shall (if previously resident in the Colony) receive half of the salary of the Governor; and the full "Table Allowance," in cases where any such allowance is made.

Should any Officer in the Civil Service of a Colony be called to administer the Government of a Colony in either of the aforesaid cases, he will (if no other arrangement has been made and sanctioned on his assumption of the Government) be entitled to receive only the Governor's half salary, and no part of his own salary, unless the Governor's half salary should be less than double his own whole salary, in which case he will receive half of each.

Should the person called to the administration have been removed from the Public Service in another Colony for the purpose, he shall receive, during a vacancy of the Government to which he shall so have been called, and until the embarkation of his Successor, the whole salary of the Governor; and "Table Allowance," as above stated.

But during the period in which he may continue to administer such Government, on whole salary, he will not be entitled to any portion of the salary of the Office from which he may have been removed; and from the period at which the newly-appointed Governor shall become entitled to half salary, the Officer provisionally administering shall receive only the other half; and "Table Allowance," as above stated. Whether he can in this case draw also half the salary of his own Office will depend on the arrangements made for payment of his substitute, and will be decided in each instance by the Secretary of State.

* Crown Agents, by letter of September 9, 1871 (communicated to Governors in a Circular of September 13) were directed to consider it as a standing instruction that advances of salary should only be made on execution of written guarantee, from a responsible third person, for repayment of money in case of default.

† As to the mode of making such remittances through the Crown Agents, and the Forms to be used, see Circular Despatch of 21st April, 1877, and 7th April, 1890.
then be entitled to half salary), and should an Officer administering some other Government be called to the provisional administration of the Government temporarily vacant, such officer will be entitled to draw the half salary of the Government from which he may have so temporarily removed, together with the half salary of the Government which he may have been called provisionally to administer; and "Table Allowance," as above stated.

If the period of a vacancy, or of the absence of a Governor, should exceed nine months and there should be any salary left for the purpose, the Secretary of State will be willing to make such arrangements as may appear reasonable for the increase of the salary of the temporary holder for the period of excess.

Officers in the provisional administration of Colonial Governments must, however, in all cases in which bills are drawn on the Paymaster-General, draw for the half salaries only of such Governments until they shall receive Notifications from the Colonial Office of the periods during which they may be entitled to full salary.

113A. Officers succeeding to the administration, or the provisional administration, of Colonial Governments, will be entitled to draw full or half salary, as the case may be, in respect of the day on which they assume their duties. The Officers whom they succeed will not be entitled to any payment for that day, excepting the half salary granted in cases of absence on leave.

114. If a Governor is transferred from one Colony to another, and comes to England first, he will usually receive the half salary of the Government which he relinquishes if it should be available, and not drawn by any other Officer, until the date of his embarkation from England for the Government to which he may be appointed.

115. If no portion of the salary of the Government from which such Governor is transferred is so available, but the half salary of the Government to which he may be appointed is available, he will usually receive the half salary of the latter.

116. If no half salary is available from either, he can receive no salary until he assumes his new Government.

117. When a Governor who has been transferred from one Government to another returns to this country, before proceeding to his new Government, the Secretary of State must be satisfied that such return is unavoidable, or in furtherance of the public interests, before the Officer is allowed to receive any half salary. (See also circular of 8th January, 1873, as to the division of salary on the occasion of a change in the office of Governor.)

§ II. Leave of absence.