Colony: Sierra Leone
Year: 1951
Section: General Description
Type: narrative
---
General Description

The peninsula of Sierra Leone is about 25 miles in length, and from 10 to 12 miles in breadth at its widest part. It is one of the few points on the African coast where there is high land near the sea. It is formed by a range of igneous mountains, running parallel to the sea from north-west to south-south-east, the summits of which, in the Picket Hill, Sugar Loaf and Leicester mountains, rise in conical form to a height of from 2,000 to 3,000 feet. The mountains are composed principally of norite, and are thickly wooded. They are intersected by ravines and small valleys, and there are considerable tracts of level ground, especially on the eastern side of the peninsula, where it sinks to the mainland.

The configuration of the Protectorate varies much in different localities. The coastal strip is flat and low-lying and the river estuaries, below high tide mark, are bounded by extensive mangrove swamps. The western and southern part of the Protectorate consists of rolling wooded country, broken in places by ranges of hills rising to 1,000 feet or more. The ground rises to the north and east to form an upland plateau having a general elevation of about 1,500 feet. The Sula and Kangari hills rise to nearly 3,000 feet, while to the east, near the French Guinea frontier, Bintimane peak and the summits of the Tingi range rise to above 6,000 feet. Unlike many regions on the West Coast of Africa the country is well watered by rivers and streams. The principal rivers of Sierra Leone, which empty themselves into the Atlantic Ocean, are the Great and Little Scarcies, the Rokel or Seli (or Sierra Leone River), the Jong or Teye, the Ribbi, the Bum or Sewa, the Moa and the Mano, most of which are navigable by small craft for varying distances.

The capital, Freetown, lies about four miles up the Sierra Leone River, at the foot of a chain of hills rising 2,900 feet above the sea. It possesses one of the best harbours in West Africa, and is an important coaling station and a port of registry.

The peninsula of Sierra Leone and the lands immediately adjoining yield only a small quantity of exportable commodities. Some cassava is grown which is used for local consumption. Fruits and vegetables are also grown in the hilly valleys. The extent of the peninsula area is small (256 square miles), and the generally rocky soil is not well adapted for cultivation.

Considerable quantities of palm kernels, palm oil, piaassa, with other articles of lesser importance are exported via Bonthe in the South-Western Province as well as through Freetown.

Many districts in the Protectorate are fertile and well adapted to the growth of oil palms, coconuts, beniseed, kola nuts, gum-producing trees, ginger, cocoa, rice and other tropical products.

The mineral industry which owes its inception to the discovery firstly of platinum in 1926 and later of other minerals by the Government Geological Survey, has been responsible for over 50 per cent. in value of the exports of the Colony and Protectorate since 1935. Diamonds are obtained from alluvial workings in the Kono
district, chromite is mined in the Kambui hills in the Kenema district and iron ore is extracted at Marampa in the Port Loko district. A large deposit of iron ore has also been proved in the Tonkolili district. The production of gold and platinum which decreased during the 1939-45 war is showing some signs of recovery.

All minerals are vested in the Crown except the deposits at Marampa which belong to the tribal authorities, who have leased them to the operating company.

The main tribes in the Protectorate are in the north, Temne, Limba, Susu, Loko, Fula, Mandingo, Koranko, Yalunka, and in the south Mende, Sherbro, Krim, Gallina, Gola, Vai Kono and Kissi.
