Colony: Sierra Leone
Year: 1928
Section: General Description.
Type: narrative
---

The peninsula of Sierra Leone is about 25 miles in length, and from 10 to 12 miles in breadth at its widest part. It is one of the few points on the African coast where there is high land near the sea. It is formed by a range of volcanic mountains, running parallel to the sea from N.W. to S.S.E., the summits of which, in the Picket Hill, Sugar Loaf and Leicester Mountains, rise in conical form to a height of from 2,000 to 3,000 feet. The mountains are composed principally of novite, and are thickly wooded. They are intersected by ravines and small valleys, and there are considerable tracts of level ground, especially on the eastern side of the peninsula, where it sinks to the mainland.

The configuration of the Protectorate varies much in different localities. The parts on the banks of the rivers are low and swampy, while away from the rivers the country consists of low rolling downs, with here and there, in the northern portion, a range of hills some 3,000 feet in height. Unlike many regions on the West Coast of Africa, the country is well watered by rivers and streams. The principal rivers which empty themselves into the Atlantic on the Sierra Leone Coast are the Great and Little Scarcies, the Sierra Leone or Rokell, the Sherbro, the Jong, the Manneh or Mano, the Ribbi, Bum, Kittam, and Moa, most of which are navigable for several miles.

The capital, Freetown, lies about four miles up the Sierra Leone River, at the foot of a chain of hills rising 2,900 feet above the sea. In 1921 it contained 44,142 inhabitants. It possesses the best harbour in West Africa, and is an important coaling station and a port of registry.

The peninsula of Sierra Leone and the lands immediately adjoining have a population (including Freetown and its Districts) of 88,163. It yields only a small quantity of exportable commodities, but ginger and coffee thrive if well looked after. The extent of the territory is, however, small (256 square miles), and the generally rocky soil is not very well adapted for cultivation.

Considerable quantities of palm kernels, palm oil, piaassava, with other articles of lesser importance are exported via Bonthe in the Southern Province.

Many districts in the Protectorate are fertile and well adapted to the growth of oil palms, coco-
made fresh provision for the appointment of the Governor and Commander-in-Chief, and instruc-

imports are tobacco, cotton goods, etc., and hardware.
The Protectorate covers an area of about 27,200 square miles, lying between the Niger and the Benue Rivers, and extending from the River Niger to the Atlantic Ocean.

The Protectorate comprises the territories of Nigeria and its dependencies (the Lagos Colony, the Sapele Division, and the Niger Delta). It also includes the Timbuktu District in the north-western quadrant of the country, and several coastal areas above the mouth of the Niger River.

There is a saloon at New John's Point, "Mississippi," which is settled by people from Britain who have described coming to this place in order to make their living by means of trade and commerce.

The Protectorate was originally intended for a settlement of Europeans who came from various parts of the world, including the United Kingdom, France, and Spain. The English settlers brought with them various territories and chiefdoms, among which was the Farin Province, which they claimed to be lying within the Protectorate in 1861.

Chief Abutu, in the west of the protectorate, for the purpose of adding these three territories of the Colony. This Many districts in the Protectorate are fertile and well adapted to the growth of oil palms, coco-
nuts, bene seed, kola nuts, gum-producing trees, ginger, cacao, rice, and other tropical products. No minerals have been discovered, except iron, which can hardly be reckoned as of exportable value.

The population of the Protectorate was in 1921 estimated at 1,456,148 and is composed of the following tribes:

Northern Province { Temnes, Limbas, Susus, Lokkos, Fulahs, Mandingoes, Korankos, Yalunkas.
Central Province { Mendes, Sherbros, Konnohs, a few Kissis.
Southern Province { Mendes, Krima, Sherbros, Gallinas, Golas and Vais.
