Colony: Sierra Leone
Year: 1886
Section: CHAPTER IV.
Type: narrative
---
CHAPTER IV.

§ I. Appointments to Public Offices.

63. The regulations comprised in this Chapter are not intended to apply to Colonies under responsible Government, in which appointments to Public Offices are made by the Governor with advice of his Executive Council, and are not authorized or confirmed by any Commission or Warrant from the Queen.

64. In other Colonies Public Offices are generally granted in the name of Her Majesty, and holden during Her Majesty's Pleasure. In some cases, however, it is specially provided by law that they shall be granted by the Governor or by the Governor in Council or by some judicial authority, and in some few cases they are holden during good behaviour.

65. The general rule is, that all Public Offices of considerable rank, trust, and emolument, should be granted by an Instrument under the Public Seal of the Colony in Her Majesty's name. The appointment may be made either provisionally, when the Instrument is issued under authority of Her Majesty's General Instructions and subject to the Royal approval, or absolutely, when the Instrument is issued in pursuance of Her Majesty's Special Instructions, which Special Instructions are conveyed to the Governor generally in the form of Warrants under the Royal Sign Manual and Signet.

66. The distinction between Offices which are, and Offices which are not, of considerable rank, trust and emolument, being in itself vague and indefinite, has been rendered as precise as the nature of the case admits, by the following distinction. Offices are classed under three heads:-1, those of which the emoluments do not exceed one hundred pounds per annum; 2, those of which the emoluments exceed one hundred and do not exceed two hundred pounds per annum; 3, and those of which the emoluments exceed two hundred pounds per annum.

67. When a vacancy occurs in the first or lowest of the three classes last mentioned, the Governor, as a general rule, has the absolute disposal of the appointment, subject only to the condition of reporting every such appointment by the first opportunity.

68. When a vacancy occurs in the second or middle class, the Governor reports it to the Secretary of State, together with the name and qualifications of the person whom he has appointed to fill it provisionally and intends to fill it finally, which recommendation is almost uniformly followed.

69. When a vacancy occurs in the third or highest class, the Governor follows the same course as to reporting the vacancy and provisional appointment; but he is distinctly to apprise the object of his choice that he holds the Office in the strictest sense of the word provisionally only until his appointment is confirmed or superseded by Her Majesty. He is at liberty also to recommend a candidate for the final appointment, but it must be distinctly understood that the Secretary of State has the power of recommending another instead. In these cases the confirmation or other final appointment takes place in the form already mentioned, of a warrant under the Royal Sign Manual and Signet.*

70. It is of course impossible to lay down any general rule for deciding in what cases the recommendation of a Governor will, or will not, be ultimately sanctioned and confirmed by the Queen; but in general it may be stated, that Her Majesty will be advised to regard more favourably appointments which are in the nature of promotions of meritorious Public Servants, than appointments made in favour of persons new to the Public Service; and that when any new Office has been created the Governor's recommendation for filling it up will carry with it less weight than in the case of offices which the Governor may have found already established. In the cases of such new Offices there will always be more than usual reason to anticipate that an appointment will be made directly from this country.

71. Appointments of gentlemen connected with the Governor, or who have accompanied him to the Colony as Private Secretaries or otherwise, are open to much objection, and will rarely be confirmed. Provisional appointments of this kind should be reported to the Secretary of State without any recommendation as to the mode in which the Office shall be permanently filled. Should such an appointment be made at a time when a Governor is about leave the Colony, his Successor will be expected to report on the mode in which the Office should be permanently filled.

72. It is further to be understood, that, in determining the propriety of appointments from this Country or from the Colony, regard will probably be had to the comparatively advanced state of wealth and population in each Colony, and to the number of properly qualified Candidates among whom the Local Authorities may have the opportunity of making a selection.

73. In the distribution of the patronage of the Government in the Colonies, great weight must always be attached to local services and experience. Every Governor will therefore make, once in each year, a Confidential Report of the claims of Candidates, whether already employed in the Public Service or not, whom he may consider to possess those qualifications, in order that, when a vacancy or an opportunity for promotion occurs, the Secretary of State may have before him additional means, besides the immediate recommendation of the Governor, for judging how far the particular Candidate recommended by the Governor is on the whole the best qualified, and whether a Candidate of proper qualifications is to be found in that or in any other Colony. The Governor will ascertain and report upon the qualifications of other Candidates, of whom he may have less knowledge, when he sees sufficient reason for supposing that the Public Service might gain by their admission into it; but in the application of these Rules much must be left to the Governor's discretion.

* This provision is practically obsolete. See Circular Despatch, September 30, 1869.
74. In reporting a vacancy in any Office under the Crown, of which the emoluments exceed 200l. per annum, or in reporting the creation of any such office, the Governor will furnish in the form of the Schedule inserted in the Appendix (p. 286), and in duplicate, full particulars respecting the nature and incidents of the office, and will state in the covering despatch whether persons filling that or similar offices have been usually selected by the Secretary of State or by the Governor.

75. In the case of the Chief Judicial and Chief Fiscal Offices in a Colony in which the Crown is responsible for the appointments, local connexion with the Colony by birth, family ties, or otherwise, will be considered, generally speaking, to render a candidate ineligible.

76. All salaried Public Officers are prohibited from engaging in trade or connecting themselves with any commercial undertaking without leave from the Governor approved by the Secretary of State. As a general rule this prohibition will be made absolute in the case of officers whose remuneration is fixed on the assumption that their whole time is at the disposal of the Government.

77. No Public Officer is to undertake any private agency in any matter connected with the exercise of his public duties.

78. Whenever half-pay Officers borne on the half-pay of Her Majesty's Army or Navy, or in the Military and Commissariat Departments, shall be appointed to a civil situation in any of the Colonies, a report of the appointment, specifying the date and the amount of salary, is to be made immediately to the Secretary of State for the Colonies, which will be transmitted by him to the proper authorities in this Country. Promotions in the Civil Service of half-pay Officers are also to be notified forthwith to the Secretary of State for the Colonies, for the information of the respective authorities.

79. No paid officer under the Government of a Colony can be permitted to be the Editor of a newspaper, or to take any active part in the management of it. He may furnish articles signed with his name upon objects of general interest, abstaining from writing on questions which can properly be called political, or discussing the measures of the Government, or the official proceedings of its Officers, and from furnishing any articles whatever to a newspaper which, in commenting on the measures of the Government, should habitually exceed the bounds of fair and temperate discussion. If the authorship of anonymous articles should be brought home to any Officer, or if, in articles bearing his signature, he should discuss any political subject, or the measures of the Government, or the official proceedings of its Officers, he will be liable to be removed from Office.

80. No Public Officer is allowed to receive a Grant of money by a Colonial Legislature, if such Grant has not been initiated or authorised by the Governor.

§ II. Suspension and Dismissal from Office.

81. Holders of patent offices may be removed from such offices by the Governor and Council under the second section of the Act 22 Geo. 3., c. 75 (amended by 54 Geo. 3., c. 61); but care must be taken that the officer is heard after being apprised of the charge against him, and it will be convenient that the course prescribed in case of suspension should be pursued in any proceedings for removal.

82. Against any such removal an appeal lies to Her Majesty in Council, which should be prosecuted like any other appeal.

83. The following Rules, unless the mode of suspension is otherwise provided for by some local law, must be strictly observed in proceeding to suspend from the exercise of his office any public officer who has been appointed by virtue of a commission or warrant from the Crown, or whose emoluments exceed 100l. a year.

84. The Governor shall signify to the officer, by a statement in writing, the grounds of the intended suspension, and shall call upon him to state in writing before a day to be specified (which day must allow a reasonable interval for the purpose) any grounds upon which he relies to exculpate himself.

85. If the officer does not furnish such statement within the time fixed by the Governor, or if he fails to exculpate himself to the satisfaction of the Governor, the Governor shall apprise the officer that on a day (to be specified), the question of his suspension will be brought before the Executive Council (or, in British Guiana, before the official members of the Court of Policy), and that he will be allowed, and, if the Council so determine, required to appear before the Council and defend himself orally.

86. If any witnesses are examined by the Council, the officer must be allowed the opportunity of being present, and of putting questions on his own behalf. The officer must also be given a copy of any documentary evidence that is to be used against him, and that has not been already furnished to him.

87. If in the course of the inquiry further grounds of suspension are disclosed, the Governor, if he thinks fit to proceed upon such grounds, shall furnish the officer with a written statement thereof, and shall take the same steps as are above prescribed in respect of the original grounds of suspension.

88. If in any case the Governor considers that the interests of the public service require that an officer should cease to exercise the powers and functions of his office (as, for instance, in the custody of public money) instantly, or before the proceedings above prescribed can be completed, he may at once interdict the officer from the exercise of the powers and functions of his office. The Governor shall in all cases allow the interdicted officer to receive half the salary of his office, until proceedings for his suspension have been taken, and may in special cases allow a larger amount not exceeding the full salary; but no such officer can be formally suspended from his office or deprived of his whole salary, except upon formal proceedings as are above prescribed, which must in all cases be taken with as little delay as possible.

89. If upon the inquiry the Executive Council are of opinion that the officer deserves punishment, but not the full penalty of suspension, the Governor may remove the officer to an office of lower rank in the service, or may require him to serve in his original office at a reduced salary, either permanently or for a stated period, or may deduct a portion of salary due or about to become due to the officer.

90. If the officer is suspended or otherwise punished as above mentioned, the Governor shall, without loss of time, report the matter to the Secretary of State for approval and confirmation, transmitting the minutes of Council, the written statements, and all material documents relating to the case.
If the officer is suspended, the Governor shall at the same time transmit the usual return required in the case of a vacancy. (A form will be found in the Appendix p. 337.)

91. If the officer is suspended, the Secretary of State, instead of confirming the suspension, may direct the Governor to subject the officer to one of the lesser punishments above mentioned; or if, in lieu of suspension, the officer has been so punished by the Governor, the Secretary of State may direct the Governor to reduce or to increase the punishment already awarded.

92. If the suspension of an officer is not approved and confirmed by the Secretary of State, and no other punishment is awarded, the officer will be entitled to the full amount of salary which he would have received if he had not been suspended, even though the officer discharging the functions of the office in the meanwhile has been allowed to receive some portion of the salary of the office.

93. If the suspension is approved and confirmed by the Secretary of State, all salary will cease from the day of suspension; and although the officer should be subsequently restored (as an act of indulgence), he will not be entitled to any portion of salary during the period of his suspension. Pending the decision of the Secretary of State the Governor, with the advice of the Executive Council, may grant a small alimentary allowance to an officer who has been suspended, and who appears urgently to need such assistance.

94. An officer whose suspension is approved and confirmed by the Secretary of State forfeits all claim to a retiring allowance, even though he should have paid contributions towards such allowance.

95. If criminal proceedings are instituted against a public officer, proceedings for his suspension upon any grounds involved in the criminal charge shall not be taken pending the criminal proceedings.

96. If an officer is convicted on a criminal charge the Governor may cause the proceedings of the Criminal Court on such charge to be laid before the Executive Council, and if the Council are of opinion that the officer should be suspended on account of the offence for which he has been convicted, he may thereupon be suspended without taking any of the proceedings above prescribed, but his suspension must be reported to the Secretary of State for approval and confirmation.

96. (a) An officer acquitted on a criminal charge is not thereby rendered exempt from suspension on account of his conduct in the matter; and the Governor, if he thinks fit, may take the usual proceedings for the purpose.

96. (b) An officer who is under suspension may not leave the Colony, during the interval before he is reinstated or dismissed, without the leave of the Governor. If granted leave of absence the officer will not be entitled to any more salary than if he had remained in the Colony.

96. (c) Any officer, whether under suspension or not, who absents himself from the Colony without leave, will be held to have thereby vacated his office.

96. (d) An officer who has not been appointed by virtue of a commission or warrant from the Crown, and whose emoluments do not exceed 100l. a year, may be dismissed by the Governor without the proceedings above prescribed; but in every such case the grounds of dismissal must be definitely stated in writing, and communicated to the officer that he may have full opportunity of excusing himself, and the matter must be investigated by the Governor with the aid of the head of the department (if any). Such dismissals will not require the confirmation of the Secretary of State, but any memorial from the dismissed officer must be forwarded to the Secretary of State without delay, with a short statement of the grounds of dismissal.

§ III. Pensions and Retiring Allowances.

97. In the absence of any local law, each application for a pension or retiring allowance as it presents itself must be specially considered and treated on its own merits. Except in the case of Officers appointed prior to 5th August, 1829, the amount of pension to be granted, if any, will be generally regulated by the principles of the British Superannuation Acts, 4 & 5 W. 4, c. 24, and 22 Vict. c. 26. But it must be clearly understood that the maximum rate of pension is not always awarded, and that when public employment is combined with the practice of a private profession, no pension will be granted, unless the retiring Officer had acquired a claim to Superannuation before the passing of the Act 22 Vict. c. 26, or had had his right to a pension otherwise and specially preserved. The cases of Officers having had private practice, whose services commenced after the passing of the Act 22 Vict. c. 26, and whose appointments may be abolished, will be specially considered.

98. Whenever a Governor may have occasion to bring under the consideration of Her Majesty's Government the application of any Officer for a retiring allowance on quitting the public service, he is required to furnish certain particulars in each case, according to the form inserted in the Appendix (p. 337). (An extract of the Treasury Minute, and of a Report of Superannuation Committee, respecting the grant of retiring allowances to those who entered the service prior to 5th August, 1829, to those who entered it after that date, to professional Officers, and in regard to pensions granted on abolition of office, are printed at pp. 225-26 of the edition for 1881).

99. In case of Public Officers receiving salaries not exceeding 120l. per annum, the Governor, subject to revision by the Home Government, may decide on the amount of retiring allowance to be granted, in accordance with the general rules relating to pensions.

100. Pensions to Colonial Officers retiring on the ground of ill-health are subject as a general rule to this condition, that should the Officer's health be re-established, he is bound to accept, in lieu of his pension, any office, not inferior in value to that from which he retired, which the Secretary of State may think proper to confer on him, due regard being had to circumstances of climate.

101. Previously to making any payment in a Colony in respect of a pension, the Treasurer, or other proper Officer, will take care to inform himself whether any condition may have been attached to it, with reference to the employment, residence, or otherwise, of the claimant. If such condition shall exist, the Treasurer will have to produce as a voucher, in support of his account, a sufficient certificate or other proof that it has been complied with, and must withhold the payment of the pension until such document shall be furnished.

102. If an officer shall in any case retire on a pension, during a leave of absence, not obtained with a view to retirement, or within six months after resumption of duty, the term of service on which his pension is calculated will be subject to such deduction, not exceeding the duration of his last leave, as the Secretary of State may think fit.
103. If in any Colony the law of the Colony shall vest in the retiring Officer, an unconditional right to the pension claimed, or is otherwise inconsistent with these rules, the case must of course be governed by the law and not by the rule. (See circular of 22nd May, 1873, as to mode of dealing for pension the purposes with the house allowances and fees of public officers, in Part IV of the edition for 1881.)
