Colony: Sierra Leone
Year: 1915
Section: Means of Communication.
Type: narrative
---
Means of Communication.

Steamers leave Liverpool for Freetown every Wednesday. The average length of passage is 11 days to Freetown.

Telegraphic communication with Europe was established in 1886, there being now three cables, to Bathurst, Conakry, and Accra respectively. A wireless telegraphic station was opened in 1913. The main line of the Sierra Leone Government Railway, which was the first Railway to be constructed in British West Africa, runs from the Freetown terminus to Pendembu in the Railway District, a distance of 227½ miles. The number of stations and flag stations is 56. From Boia Junction, 64½ miles from Freetown, a branch line runs to Makene, a distance of 83 miles; and a further extension to Baga in the Koinadugu District is now under construction.

There are 468½ miles of combined telegraph and telephone service in operation. The gauge of the Railway is 2 ft. 6 in. A number of roads have been constructed to act as feeders to the railways.

There is another line, known as the Mountain Railway, which connects Freetown with Hill Station, 5 miles distant.

There are also lines connecting the terminus with the Government Wharf, Government Quarry, Ascension Town Cemetery, and the Recreation Ground.

The total railway receipts for 1913 were 168,418£; the working expenses for the same year were 90,152£.

The Sherbro river is navigable for over 20 miles (up to York Island), the Sierra Leone, or Rokell river, for 40 miles (as far as Magbile).

For six months of the year the Kittam River is navigable for launches for 50 miles (to Shenge) and much of the produce from the Northern Sherbro District is thus transported to Bonthe.

The rates of postage are as follows:

| Letters per oz. | Newspapers and other articles per 2 oz. |
|----------------|----------------------------------------|
| To the U.K., India, and d. certain Colonies* | 1 ½ |
| To other Postal Union and Non-Union Countries | 2½ |

The Parcel Post system has been introduced, and parcels up to 11 lbs. in weight can be despatched at a rate of 1s. for parcels up to 3 lbs., 2s. up to 7 lbs., and 3s. up to 11 lbs. in weight.
