Colony: Sierra Leone
Year: 1886
Section: § III. Pensions and Retiring Allowances.
Type: narrative
---
§ III. Pensions and Retiring Allowances.

97. In the absence of any local law, each application for a pension or retiring allowance as it presents itself must be specially considered and treated on its own merits. Except in the case of Officers appointed prior to 5th August, 1829, the amount of pension to be granted, if any, will be generally regulated by the principles of the British Superannuation Acts, 4 & 5 W. 4, c. 24, and 22 Vict. c. 26. But it must be clearly understood that the maximum rate of pension is not always awarded, and that when public employment is combined with the practice of a private profession, no pension will be granted, unless the retiring Officer had acquired a claim to Superannuation before the passing of the Act 22 Vict. c. 26, or had had his right to a pension otherwise and specially preserved. The cases of Officers having had private practice, whose services commenced after the passing of the Act 22 Vict. c. 26, and whose appointments may be abolished, will be specially considered.

98. Whenever a Governor may have occasion to bring under the consideration of Her Majesty's Government the application of any Officer for a retiring allowance on quitting the public service, he is required to furnish certain particulars in each case, according to the form inserted in the Appendix (p. 337). (An extract of the Treasury Minute, and of a Report of Superannuation Committee, respecting the grant of retiring allowances to those who entered the service prior to 5th August, 1829, to those who entered it after that date, to professional Officers, and in regard to pensions granted on abolition of office, are printed at pp. 225-26 of the edition for 1881).

99. In case of Public Officers receiving salaries not exceeding 120l. per annum, the Governor, subject to revision by the Home Government, may decide on the amount of retiring allowance to be granted, in accordance with the general rules relating to pensions.

100. Pensions to Colonial Officers retiring on the ground of ill-health are subject as a general rule to this condition, that should the Officer's health be re-established, he is bound to accept, in lieu of his pension, any office, not inferior in value to that from which he retired, which the Secretary of State may think proper to confer on him, due regard being had to circumstances of climate.

101. Previously to making any payment in a Colony in respect of a pension, the Treasurer, or other proper Officer, will take care to inform himself whether any condition may have been attached to it, with reference to the employment, residence, or otherwise, of the claimant. If such condition shall exist, the Treasurer will have to produce as a voucher, in support of his account, a sufficient certificate or other proof that it has been complied with, and must withhold the payment of the pension until such document shall be furnished.

102. If an officer shall in any case retire on a pension, during a leave of absence, not obtained with a view to retirement, or within six months after resumption of duty, the term of service on which his pension is calculated will be subject to such deduction, not exceeding the duration of his last leave, as the Secretary of State may think fit.
103. If in any Colony the law of the Colony shall vest in the retiring Officer, an unconditional right to the pension claimed, or is otherwise inconsistent with these rules, the case must of course be governed by the law and not by the rule. (See circular of 22nd May, 1873, as to mode of dealing for pension the purposes with the house allowances and fees of public officers, in Part IV of the edition for 1881.)

CHAPTER V.