Colony: Sierra Leone
Year: 1878
Section: SIERRA LEONE.
Type: narrative
---
SIERRA LEONE.

Sierra Leone proper consists of a peninsula terminating in Cape Sierra Leone, which is bounded on the north by a river of the same name. The Cape lies in 8° 30' N. lat., 18° 18' W. long. The settlement is 18 miles in length by 12 in breadth, with an area of 300 square miles. Sierra Leone was ceded to Great Britain in 1787 by the native chiefs. Four years afterwards a charter was granted to a Company under the name of "The Sierra Leone Company." In 1800 a grant was made to the Company by Letters Patent of the peninsula, and a Court of Directors of the Company was empowered to appoint a Governor and Council, the former having power to enact laws; this state of things lasted 7 years, when the colony was transferred back to the Crown.

In 1862 a large tract of country called Sherboro was handed over by treaty to the Colony. In this district British rule prevails, domestic slavery has been abolished, and the expenditure thrown on the colony by the transfer has been more than met by the value of Customs dues collected on the trade of the district.

By a Charter issued on May 27, 1863, an Executive Council was created, composed of four members nominated by the Crown, and the Legislative Council was made to consist of the members of the Executive Council, and "such other Person or Persons as We, by any Instruction or Warrant under Our Sign-Manual and Signet, may from time to time hereafter nominate and appoint to be members of the said Legislative Council."

In 1865, it was decided that a Central Government of the settlements on the West Coast of Africa should be established, with the seat of government at Sierra Leone. This change was effected by a Charter, dated the 19th of February, 1866, which revoked and determined the former commissions issued in respect of Sierra Leone, the Gambia, the Gold Coast, and Lagos, and constituted on the West Coast of Africa one Government-in-Chief, to be called the Government of the West Africa Settlements, and to comprise the four settlements aforesaid. Within each of the four said settlements a Legislative Council was established.

Within the settlement of Sierra Leone, an Executive Council was established for the purpose of advising and assisting the Governor-General.

It was provided that the Governor should reside in Sierra Leone, except when the interest of the service might render his presence desirable in any other of the said settlements.

By a new Charter, dated the 24th of July, 1874, so much of the Charter of the 19th of February, 1866, was revoked as provided for the government of the Gold Coast and Lagos, under the Government-in-Chief of the West Africa Settlements; and those settlements were erected into a distinct government.

The government of Sierra Leone and the Gambia continued during the remainder of the year 1874 to be administered under the Charter of 19th February, 1866, but it has since been revoked by a new Charter, dated 17th of December, 1874, which erected a new government of the "West Africa Settlements," and created a legislative council in each settlement, consisting of the officer administering the government and not less than two other persons, to be designated by royal instructions or warrant. There is an executive council at Sierra Leone, and the power of pardon and suspension is given to the Governor-in-Chief.

The tariff of the colony of Sierra Leone from 1853 consisted of an ad valorem duty of 4 per cent. on all imports except wines, spirits, tobacco, &c., on which specific rates were charged. There were also licence duties, taxes on houses and land, and a poll tax for the repair of roads. In 1872 the house and land tax, the road tax, the market dues on native produce, the specific duties on articles of food, clothing, and building materials, the 4 per cent. ad valorem duty, the wharfage dues, and two-thirds of the tonnage dues were abolished. The substituted tariff consisted of 2s. a gallon on spirits, 4d. a lb. on tobacco, 2s. a barrel on gunpowder, and 4d. on ground nuts. All other articles in future were declared free. The revenue under that tariff did not prove sufficient for the wants of the colony, and fresh taxes were imposed in 1874.

The distance from— Miles.
Freetown to Bathurst (Gambia) . . . 477
Bathurst to Madeira . . . 1,176
Madeira to Liverpool . . . 1,425

Freetown to Liverpool . . . 8,078

The steamers leave Liverpool for Madeira and Freetown every Saturday, and the average length of passage is 7 days to Madeira, and 7 or 8 days from Madeira to Freetown. Every third week one of the steamers of the British and African Steam Navigation Company touches at Bathurst, Gambia. The steamers that go to Bathurst are the only ones that call at Gorée, the French settlement.
about 95 miles from Gambia. The homeward bound steamers perform the same route as the outward bound ones, but they are very irregular in their arrival at Sierra Leone, and consequently in their arrival at Liverpool and the intermediate ports. This is owing to their being frequently detained down the Coast looking for freight.
