Colony: Sierra Leone
Year: 1886
Section: § I. Legislative Councils and Assemblies
Type: narrative
---
§ I. Legislative Councils and Assemblies

42. Legislative Councils nominated by the Crown consist, generally speaking, in part of the principal Executive Officers of the Colony, and in part of private persons appointed by name; the former being usually termed Official, and the latter, Unofficial Members. The proportions are prescribed by the respective charters or Commissions or Instructions to Governors.

43. The precedence of the Members of Council between themselves is regulated by the Royal Instructions. In some cases, that precedence depends on seniority of appointment alone, but in other cases that rule is qualified by assigning to the Official Members of Council precedence over the Unofficial Members.

44. When a vacancy occurs by the demise, resignation, &c., of a Legislative Councillor appointed by name, the Governor may in general appoint provisionally to such vacancy until Her Majesty's Pleasure may be known.

45. The general rule is, that no Member of Council may, on pain of vacating his seat, absent himself for more than six months except by leave of the Governor, whose power is limited to granting a leave of absence in some cases of twelve, and in others of eighteen months. Any more protracted leave of absence must be granted by the Crown.

46. In the Colonies not having Representative Assemblies, the initiation of all laws belongs in general to the Governor.

47. In Colonies having such Assemblies it is in many cases provided by Local or Statute law that the initiation of all measures for the appropriation of public money shall belong to the Governor.

48. In every Colony the Governor has authority either to give or to withhold his assent to laws passed by the other branches or members of the Legislature, and until that assent is given no such law is valid or binding.

49. Laws are in some cases passed with suspending clauses; that is, although assented to by the Governor they do not come into operation or take effect in the Colony until they shall have been specially confirmed by Her Majesty, and in other cases Parliament has for the same purpose empowered the Governor to reserve Laws for the Crown's assent, instead of himself assenting or refusing his assent to them.

50. Every Law which has received the Governor's assent (unless it contains a suspending clause) comes into operation immediately or at the time specified in the Law itself. But the Crown retains power to disallow the Law; and if such power be exercised at any time afterwards, the Law ceases to have operation from the date at which such disallowance is published in the Colony.

51. In Colonies having Representative Assemblies the disallowance of any Law, or the Crown's assent to a reserved Bill, is signified by Order in Council. The confirmation of an Act passed with a suspending clause, is not signified by Order in Council unless this mode of confirmation is required by the terms of the suspending clause itself, or by some special provision in the constitution of the colony.

52. In Crown Colonies the allowance or disallowance of any Law is generally signified by despatch.

53. In some cases a period is limited, after the expiration of which Local Enactments, though not actually disallowed, cease to have the authority of law in the Colony, unless before the lapse of that time Her Majesty's confirmation of them shall have been signified there; but the general rule is otherwise.

54. In Colonies possessing Representative Assemblies, Laws purport to be made by the Queen or by the Governor on Her Majesty's behalf or sometimes by the Governor alone, omitting any express reference to Her Majesty, with the advice and consent of the Council and Assembly. They are almost invariably designated as Acts. In Colonies not having such Assemblies, Laws are designated as Ordinances, and purport to be made by the Governor with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council (or in British Guiana of the Court of Policy).

55. In West Indian Islands or African Settlements which form part of any general Government, every Bill or Draft Ordinance must be submitted to the Governor-in-Chief before it receives the assent of the Lieutenant-Governor or Administrator. If the Governor-in-Chief shall consider any amendment indispensable, he may either require that amendment to be made before the law is brought into operation, or he may authorize the Officer administering to assent to the Bill or Draft on the express engagement of the Legislature to give effect to the Governor-in-Chief's recommendation by a supplementary Enactment.

§ II. The Executive Council.