Colony: Sierra Leone
Year: 1933
Section: Industries, Trade and Customs.
Type: narrative
---
Industries, Trade and Customs.

The inhabitants of Freetown and the Colony generally are traders and shop-keepers, and do little in the way of agriculture beyond the planting of cassava. In the Protectorate the inhabitants plant "farms," chiefly of rice and cassava, and collect natural products for sale to the various merchants and traders of the Colony. They also weave "country cloths," many of which are of a good texture and handsome design. There is also a flourishing industry of mat making, basket making, etc., and in the Northern Province, a certain amount of ornate leather work is produced. The fishing industry at Sherbro is of considerable importance, vast quantities of dried fish being taken inland. Syrians are now an important element in Freetown, where they form a large portion of the shopkeepers. In the Protectorate their numbers are increasing and they are responsible for much of the motor transport on the Protectorate roads.

The staple food of the inhabitants is rice and foofoo made from cassava.

The products from the Protectorate which constitute the principal exports are palm kernels, palm oil, kola nuts, piassava, peppers, hides, cocoa, ginger. Attempts to grow American Upland Cotton, made originally with the aid of the British Cotton Growing Association, failed on account of the unsuitable climate, but local varieties of cotton are successfully grown in considerable quantities. The principal imports are tobacco, cotton goods, spirits, furniture, groceries, etc., and hardware.

The import duties, which make provision for preferential treatment to British goods, are mainly ad valorem (20 per cent. from the British Empire and 30 per cent. from Foreign Countries); but many important articles such as Tobacco, Spirits, Wines, Beer, Petroleum products, Salt, &c., are liable to a specific duty. There are also export duties on Palm Kernels (£1 10s. Od. a ton), Kola nuts (½d. a lb.), and Gum Copal (3d. a lb.).

Specific duties in 1931 brought in £14,256,

| Ad valorem | 68,712 |
| Export | 89,958 |

Percentage of trade with the United Kingdom 54·20

| Germany | 17·48 |
| British Possessions | 4·15 |
| U.S. America | 8·08 |