Colony: Sierra Leone
Year: 1910
Section: SOMALILAND PROTECTORATE.
Type: narrative
---
SOMALILAND PROTECTORATE.

In 1884, a Protectorate was established over the tribes on the Somali Coast, extending from Lahadu (Loyi-ada), half-way between Ras Jibouti and Zeyla, to the 49th meridian E.long. The boundary has been settled by agreements with France, Italy and King Menelik of Abyssinia. Till 1898, the Somaliland Protectorate was administered by the Resident at Aden, as a dependency of the Government of India. In that year, it was transferred to the charge of the Foreign Office, and on 1st April, 1905, to that of the Colonial Office. The chief ports are Berbera, Bulhar and Zeyla. Area about 68,000 square miles.

Exports consist of skins and hides, sheep and cattle, gums, ostrich feathers, salt, ivory, and gold ingots.

Imports consist of rice, dates, cotton piece goods and shirtings, iron and hardware.

All transport is by animals. There is a weekly steamer service with Aden.

The climate at the coast is trying for Europeans, but is healthy in the interior, where an elevation of from 4,500 feet to 6,800 feet is reached.

The Haud waterless plains constitute the principal pastures of the country. The chief source of wealth of the people lies in their live stock.

In the beginning of 1901, operations were commenced against a fanatical Somali leader, the Mullah Mohammed Abdullah, and a native levy with British Officers, under Captain (local Lieut.-Colonel) E. J. E. Swayne, Indian Army, penetrated into the Nogal Valley. After defeating the Mullah at Somala and Fordiddin, and killing 1,200 men and taking 600 prisoners, he drove him into Italian territory.

The dervishes afterwards gathered together again, and a similar expedition, strengthened by the 2nd King's African Rifles (Yaos), was despatched under Colonel Swayne in the summer of 1902, and again drove the Mullah into Italian territory with heavy loss, but met with a severe check in Italian territory at Erego, on October 6th. The Mullah, however, retired as the result of this action still further into Italian territory, to Geladi.

Five months later a third expedition, co-operating with the Abyssinian Army, under Brevet Lieut.-Colonel (local Brigadier-General) W. H. Manning, Insp.-General K.A. Rifles, comprising British and Boer M.I., Indian and African troops, with the main base at Obbia in Italian Somaliland, proceeded to Mudug, thence detaching a force under Lieut.-Colonel Cobbe, V.C., to Geladi, which place was up till then the head-quarters of the enemy. A force of 200 Yaos and Sikhs, under the late Lieut.-Colonel Plunkett, was overwhelmed at Gumburru, in April, 1903, after a fight of the fiercest description. A column of 200 men under Major Gough, being at the same time attacked at Daratoleh, whence it retired fighting to Bohotleh, and in June the expedition fell back on the Berbera-Bohotleh lines of communication, when Lieut.-General Sir C. C. Egerton, K.C.B., was placed in command.

Reinforcements, increasing the force to 7,000 rifles, were despatched and placed in the field, and in January, 1904, 3,250 troops defeated 5,000 dervishes at Jidballi, about 1,000 of the latter being killed.

In March, 1905, an agreement was concluded between the Italian Government and the Mullah Seyyid Mahommed, whereby peace was declared between the dervishes and the neighbouring tribes, both those subject to the Government of Italy and those under the protection of the British Government. The Mullah was given a port on the east coast and was assigned certain territories within the Italian sphere of interest, beyond which he and his dervishes undertook not to encroach.

In the latter part of 1908, some unrest was caused by the unfriendly attitude of the Mullah, such a manner as to enable them after a time to protect themselves.

Arrangements are still in progress for arming and organising the British protected tribes in and some troops were brought up from Nyasaland, East Africa and Uganda early in 1909.
