Colony: Sierra Leone
Year: 1886
Section: § I. Appointments to Public Offices.
Type: narrative
---
§ I. Appointments to Public Offices.

63. The regulations comprised in this Chapter are not intended to apply to Colonies under responsible Government, in which appointments to Public Offices are made by the Governor with advice of his Executive Council, and are not authorized or confirmed by any Commission or Warrant from the Queen.

64. In other Colonies Public Offices are generally granted in the name of Her Majesty, and holden during Her Majesty's Pleasure. In some cases, however, it is specially provided by law that they shall be granted by the Governor or by the Governor in Council or by some judicial authority, and in some few cases they are holden during good behaviour.

65. The general rule is, that all Public Offices of considerable rank, trust, and emolument, should be granted by an Instrument under the Public Seal of the Colony in Her Majesty's name. The appointment may be made either provisionally, when the Instrument is issued under authority of Her Majesty's General Instructions and subject to the Royal approval, or absolutely, when the Instrument is issued in pursuance of Her Majesty's Special Instructions, which Special Instructions are conveyed to the Governor generally in the form of Warrants under the Royal Sign Manual and Signet.

66. The distinction between Offices which are, and Offices which are not, of considerable rank, trust and emolument, being in itself vague and indefinite, has been rendered as precise as the nature of the case admits, by the following distinction. Offices are classed under three heads:-1, those of which the emoluments do not exceed one hundred pounds per annum; 2, those of which the emoluments exceed one hundred and do not exceed two hundred pounds per annum; 3, and those of which the emoluments exceed two hundred pounds per annum.

67. When a vacancy occurs in the first or lowest of the three classes last mentioned, the Governor, as a general rule, has the absolute disposal of the appointment, subject only to the condition of reporting every such appointment by the first opportunity.

68. When a vacancy occurs in the second or middle class, the Governor reports it to the Secretary of State, together with the name and qualifications of the person whom he has appointed to fill it provisionally and intends to fill it finally, which recommendation is almost uniformly followed.

69. When a vacancy occurs in the third or highest class, the Governor follows the same course as to reporting the vacancy and provisional appointment; but he is distinctly to apprise the object of his choice that he holds the Office in the strictest sense of the word provisionally only until his appointment is confirmed or superseded by Her Majesty. He is at liberty also to recommend a candidate for the final appointment, but it must be distinctly understood that the Secretary of State has the power of recommending another instead. In these cases the confirmation or other final appointment takes place in the form already mentioned, of a warrant under the Royal Sign Manual and Signet.*

70. It is of course impossible to lay down any general rule for deciding in what cases the recommendation of a Governor will, or will not, be ultimately sanctioned and confirmed by the Queen; but in general it may be stated, that Her Majesty will be advised to regard more favourably appointments which are in the nature of promotions of meritorious Public Servants, than appointments made in favour of persons new to the Public Service; and that when any new Office has been created the Governor's recommendation for filling it up will carry with it less weight than in the case of offices which the Governor may have found already established. In the cases of such new Offices there will always be more than usual reason to anticipate that an appointment will be made directly from this country.

71. Appointments of gentlemen connected with the Governor, or who have accompanied him to the Colony as Private Secretaries or otherwise, are open to much objection, and will rarely be confirmed. Provisional appointments of this kind should be reported to the Secretary of State without any recommendation as to the mode in which the Office shall be permanently filled. Should such an appointment be made at a time when a Governor is about leave the Colony, his Successor will be expected to report on the mode in which the Office should be permanently filled.

72. It is further to be understood, that, in determining the propriety of appointments from this Country or from the Colony, regard will probably be had to the comparatively advanced state of wealth and population in each Colony, and to the number of properly qualified Candidates among whom the Local Authorities may have the opportunity of making a selection.

73. In the distribution of the patronage of the Government in the Colonies, great weight must always be attached to local services and experience. Every Governor will therefore make, once in each year, a Confidential Report of the claims of Candidates, whether already employed in the Public Service or not, whom he may consider to possess those qualifications, in order that, when a vacancy or an opportunity for promotion occurs, the Secretary of State may have before him additional means, besides the immediate recommendation of the Governor, for judging how far the particular Candidate recommended by the Governor is on the whole the best qualified, and whether a Candidate of proper qualifications is to be found in that or in any other Colony. The Governor will ascertain and report upon the qualifications of other Candidates, of whom he may have less knowledge, when he sees sufficient reason for supposing that the Public Service might gain by their admission into it; but in the application of these Rules much must be left to the Governor's discretion.

* This provision is practically obsolete. See Circular Despatch, September 30, 1869.
74. In reporting a vacancy in any Office under the Crown, of which the emoluments exceed 200l. per annum, or in reporting the creation of any such office, the Governor will furnish in the form of the Schedule inserted in the Appendix (p. 286), and in duplicate, full particulars respecting the nature and incidents of the office, and will state in the covering despatch whether persons filling that or similar offices have been usually selected by the Secretary of State or by the Governor.

75. In the case of the Chief Judicial and Chief Fiscal Offices in a Colony in which the Crown is responsible for the appointments, local connexion with the Colony by birth, family ties, or otherwise, will be considered, generally speaking, to render a candidate ineligible.

76. All salaried Public Officers are prohibited from engaging in trade or connecting themselves with any commercial undertaking without leave from the Governor approved by the Secretary of State. As a general rule this prohibition will be made absolute in the case of officers whose remuneration is fixed on the assumption that their whole time is at the disposal of the Government.

77. No Public Officer is to undertake any private agency in any matter connected with the exercise of his public duties.

78. Whenever half-pay Officers borne on the half-pay of Her Majesty's Army or Navy, or in the Military and Commissariat Departments, shall be appointed to a civil situation in any of the Colonies, a report of the appointment, specifying the date and the amount of salary, is to be made immediately to the Secretary of State for the Colonies, which will be transmitted by him to the proper authorities in this Country. Promotions in the Civil Service of half-pay Officers are also to be notified forthwith to the Secretary of State for the Colonies, for the information of the respective authorities.

79. No paid officer under the Government of a Colony can be permitted to be the Editor of a newspaper, or to take any active part in the management of it. He may furnish articles signed with his name upon objects of general interest, abstaining from writing on questions which can properly be called political, or discussing the measures of the Government, or the official proceedings of its Officers, and from furnishing any articles whatever to a newspaper which, in commenting on the measures of the Government, should habitually exceed the bounds of fair and temperate discussion. If the authorship of anonymous articles should be brought home to any Officer, or if, in articles bearing his signature, he should discuss any political subject, or the measures of the Government, or the official proceedings of its Officers, he will be liable to be removed from Office.

80. No Public Officer is allowed to receive a Grant of money by a Colonial Legislature, if such Grant has not been initiated or authorised by the Governor.

§ II. Suspension and Dismissal from Office.