Colony: Sierra Leone
Year: 1959
Section: Communications
Type: narrative
---

Freetown Airport (Lungi) is the only international airport in the territory and is operated by the Government Department of Civil Aviation. Air Services are operated through Freetown Airport by Air France, Hunting-Clan/Airwork Services and West African Airways Corporation. They connect Sierra Leone to other parts of West Africa and provide six services a week to and from the United Kingdom and other countries in Europe.

Air and marine navigational aids, and aeradio and meteorological radio services, are also provided.

The railway carried 1,438,313 passengers and 127,282 tons of freight in 1957. The gauge of the railway is 2 ft. 6 in. and the mileage maintained (including sidings) totalled 339. This mileage included a branch line covering a distance of 83½ miles. The Marampa railway (3 ft. 6 in. gauge) is operated by the Sierra Leone Development Company Limited for the purpose of carrying iron ore from Marampa to Pepel, a distance of 37½ miles.

There are 3,172 miles of road, 1,594 miles of first class roads maintained by the Public Works Department and 1,578 miles of roads maintained by local Government bodies and private companies.

Freetown, a port of British Shipping Registry, has anchorage room for 240 ships of unrestricted draught and berths for three ships alongside the new Queen Elizabeth II Quay, which is 1,250 feet long with a depth of 32 feet of water at Mean Low Water Ordinary Springs. Oil bunkers can now be obtained by ships alongside the Quay, and ships also berth alongside the nearby Kissy Oil Jetty for oil bunkers, or to discharge various types of fuel into the Oil Storage Company's tanks. Smaller ports are at Pepel, Bonthe and Sulima. Pepel is a loading port for iron ore from the Marampa mines; Bonthe and Sulima are loading ports for local produce such as palm kernels, palm oil and piassava. Passenger and cargo services to the United Kingdom are provided by Elder Dempster Lines, Limited, and Palm Line, Limited, and to the Continent by Holland West Africa Line. A limited cargo service to the east coast ports of America is provided by Elder Dempster Lines, Limited, and the Barber Steamship Lines, and to South Africa by J. P. Holmen, Limited, and Elder Dempster Lines, Limited.

The total of inland waterways is approximately 493 miles but several of these rivers are only navigable for three months of the year when the rivers are in flood. A considerable amount of local produce is transported to Freetown by launches from the Great and Little Scarcies River in the north and Bonthe River to the south.

Broadcasting