Colony: Sierra Leone
Year: 1940
Section: General Description.
Type: narrative
---
General Description.

The peninsula of Sierra Leone is about 25 miles in length, and from 10 to 12 miles in breadth at its widest part. It is one of the few points on the African coast where there is high land near the sea. It is formed by a range of igneous mountains, running parallel to these from N.N.W. to S.S.E., the summits of which, in the Picket Hill, Sugar Loaf and Leicester Mountains, rise in conical form to a height of from 2,000 to 3,000 feet. The mountains are composed principally of norite, and are thickly wooded. They are intersected by ravines and small valleys, and there are considerable tracts of level ground, especially on the eastern side of the peninsula, where it sinks to the mainland.

The configuration of the Protectorate varies much in different localities. The coastal strip is flat and low-lying and the river estuaries, below high tide mark, are bounded by extensive mangrove swamps. The western and southern part of the Protectorate consists of rolling wooded country, broken in places by ranges of hills rising to 1,000 ft. or more. The ground rises to the north and east to form an upland plateau having a general elevation of about 1,500 ft. The Sula and Kangari hills rise to nearly 3,000 ft., while to the east, near the French Guinea frontier, Bintumane Peak and the summits of the Tingi range rise to above 6,000 ft. Unlike many regions on the West Coast of Africa the country is well watered by rivers and streams. The principal rivers of Sierra Leone which empty themselves into the Atlantic Ocean are the Great and Little Scarcies, the Rokel or Seli (or Sierra Leone river), the Jong or Taia, the Ribbi, the Bum or Sewa, the Moa and the Mano, most of which are navigable by small craft for several miles.

The capital, Freetown, lies about four miles up the Sierra Leone River, at the foot of a chain of hills rising 2,900 feet above the sea. In 1931 it contained 54,958 inhabitants. It possesses one of the best harbours in West Africa, and is an important coaling station and a port of registry.

The peninsula of Sierra Leone and the lands immediately adjoining have a population (including Freetown and its Districts) of 90,885. It yields only a small quantity of exportable commodities, but ginger and coffee thrive if well looked after. The extent of the territory is, however, small (236 square miles), and the generally rocky soil is not very well adapted for cultivation.

Considerable quantities of palm kernels, palm oil, piasava, with other articles of lesser importance are exported via Bonteh in the Southern Province as well as through Freetown.

Many districts in the Protectorate are fertile and well adapted to the growth of oil palms, cocoanuts, beniseed, kola nuts, gum-producing trees, ginger, cocoa, rice, and other tropical products. Alluvial platinum deposits occur near York, and are being worked on a small scale. Alluvial gold in the Protectorate has attracted both companies and individuals. Gold mining is now being actively pursued and is already of great value to the country.

Chromite has been discovered in several parts of the Protectorate and the most promising deposit occurs in the Kambui Hills near Hangha. Prospecting operations are being carried out.

Diamonds are being mined in the Kono District and now form a very important industry in this country.

Two large deposits of iron ore occur and export on a large scale has commenced from Marampa. Preliminary work is now being undertaken in connection with the second, known as the Tonkolili deposits.

The native population of the Protectorate is estimated at 1,672,057 and is composed of the following tribes:

Northern Province Temnes, Limbas, Susus, Lokos, Fulas, Mandingos, Korankos, Yalunkas, Mendes, Sherbos, Konas,

Southern Province Krima, Gallinas, Golas, Vais, Kissis.
