Colony: Sierra Leone
Year: 1946
Section: ADMINISTRATION
Type: narrative
---
ADMINISTRATION

Colony

That part of Sierra Leone which is administered as Colony consists of the Sierra Leone Peninsula with the adjacent Tasso and Bananas Islands, the town of Bonthe on Sherbro Island, and York Island. It is administered by three authorities:

(a) The Freetown City Council (as constituted under Ordinance No. 38 of 1927).

(b) The Rural Areas Council which deals with the Colony Peninsula, outside the Freetown Municipal Area. It consists of the President, one member elected from each of the four rural areas, and five members nominated by the Governor. A salaried Rural Commissioner, assisted by an advisory committee, is responsible for the administration of each rural area, under the general supervision of the Commissioner of the Headquarters District who is also the President of the Rural Areas Council.

(c) The Sherbro Judicial District, consisting of the town of Bonthe, York Island and the small islands adjacent thereto, is administered in the same way as the Headquarters District of the Colony. The District Commissioner of the Bonthe District (Protectorate) is ex-officio President of the Sherbro Judicial District Board, the local authority for the district. The board consists of the President, the Medical Officer, Bonthe, and four unofficial members.

Protectorate

The Protectorate is divided into three provinces, Northern, South-Western and South-Eastern, each in charge of a provincial commissioner. Administrative control of the whole protectorate is vested in the Chief Commissioner, whose headquarters are at Bo. There are 13 protectorate districts each in charge of a district commissioner. There are 214 chiefdoms, each ruled by a paramount chief; 113 chiefdoms, including all the larger ones and about 80 per cent. of the total population of the protectorate, have been organised as native administrations since 1937. These have their own treasuries and are responsible, under the supervision of the District Commissioner, for the local administration and development.

Provision has recently been made for the establishment of district councils and a Protectorate assembly, which will serve in the first instance in advisory capacities.
