Colony: Sierra Leone
Year: 1906
Section: Means of Communication.
Type: narrative
---
Means of Communication.

Steamers leave Liverpool for Grand Canary and Freetown every other Saturday, and for Madeira and Freetown every other Wednesday. The average length of passage is 12 days to Freetown. There is also regular steam communication with Hamburg, Havre, and Marseilles, as well as with Lisbon and Algiers.

Telegraphic communication with Europe was established in 1886, there being now three cables, to Bathurst, Conakry, and Acora respectively. A single line railway of 2 ft. 6 in. gauge was
opened to the public on 1st May, 1899, to carry goods and passengers from Freetown to Songo Town, via Cline Town, Kissy, Hastings, Wellington, Waterloo and Newton, a distance of about 32 miles, and there is telegraphic communication between these stations. This line has been extended through the Bandajuma District past Bo to Baiima. Horses do not thrive, and there is but little wheel traffic, and few roads fit for it.

The construction of a railway between Freetown and the highland country on the south has been completed in order to give facilities for Europeans to build residences on the hills.

The working of the railway open lines is progressing satisfactorily, and there is every indication that they will be the means of bringing considerably more produce to the port of the colony than was possible previously. The cost of up-keep of the open lines amounted in 1903 to £31,888.

The Sherbro river is navigable for over 20 miles (up to Yorktown), the Sierra Leone, or Roquelle river, for 40 miles (as far as Magbolie).

The rates of postage are as follows:

| Letters, Newspapers and other articles, per ½ oz. | To the U.K., India, and certain Colonies* | 1½ | To other Postal Union and Non-Union Countries | 2½ |

The Parcel Post system has been introduced, and parcels up to 11 lbs. in weight can be despatched at a rate of 1s. for parcels up to 3 lbs., 2s. up to 7 lbs., and 3s. up to 11 lbs. in weight.
