Colony: Sierra Leone
Year: 1931
Section: SOMALILAND PROTECTORATE.
Type: narrative
---
SOMALILAND PROTECTORATE.

In 1884, a Protectorate was established over the tribes on the Somali Coast, extending from Lahadu (Loyi-ada), half-way between Ras Jibouti and Zeyla, to the 49th meridian E.long. The boundary has been settled by agreements with France, Italy, and King Menelik of Abyssinia. Till 1898, the Somaliland Protectorate was administered by the Resident at Aden, as a dependency of the Government of India. In that year, it was transferred to the charge of the Foreign Office, and on 1st April, 1906, to that of the Colonial Office. The chief ports are Berbera, Bulhar, and Zeyla. Area about 68,000 square miles.

Exports consist of skins and hides, sheep and cattle, guma, ostrich feathers, and salt.

Imports consist of rice, dates, cotton piece goods and shirtings, iron and hardware.

Although the camel remains the chief means of transport, the last few years have seen a considerable increase in the use of motor transport. The approximate mileage of road and cleared tracks suitable for general traffic and mechanical transport of medium weight is 940 miles. There are no railways in the Protectorate. There is a weekly steamer service with Aden.

The climate at the coast is trying for Europeans, but is comparatively healthy in the interior, where an elevation of from 4,500 feet to 6,800 feet is reached.

The Haud waterless plains constitute the principal pastures of the country. The chief source of wealth of the people lies in their live stock.

In the beginning of 1901, operations were commenced against a fanatical Somali leader, the Mullah Mohammed Abdullah, and a native levy with British Officers penetrated into the Nogal Valley. The Mullah was defeated at Somala and Fordiddin, and driven into Italian territory.

The dervishes afterwards gathered together again, and a similar expedition, strengthened by the 2nd King's African Rifles (Yaos), was despatched in the summer of 1902, and again drove the Mullah into Italian territory with heavy loss, but met with a severe check in Italian territory at Erego, on October 6th. The Mullah, however, retired as the result of this action still further into Italian territory, to Geladi.

Five months later a third expedition, comprising British and Boer M.I., Indian and African troops, with the main base at Obbia in Italian Somaliland, proceeded to Mudug, thence detaching a force to Geladi, which place was up till then the headquarters of the enemy. A force of 200 Yaos and Sikhs, was overwhelmed at Gumburru, in April, 1903, after a fight of the fiercest description. A column of 200 men, was at the same time attacked at Daratoleh, whence it retired fighting to Bohotleh, and in June the expedition fell back on the Berbera-Bohotleh lines of communication, when Lieut.-General Sir C. C. Egerton, K.C.B., was placed in command.

Reinforcements, increasing the force to 7,000 riders, were despatched and placed in the field, and in January, 1904, 3,250 troops defeated 5,000 dervishes at Jidballi.

In March, 1905, an agreement was concluded between the Italian Government and the Mullah Seyyid Mahommed, whereby peace was declared between the dervishes and the neighbouring tribes, both those subject to the Government of Italy and those under the protection of the British
Government. The Mullah was given a port on the east coast and was assigned certain territories within the Italian sphere of interest, beyond which he and his dervishes undertook not to encroach.

In the latter part of 1908, some unrest was caused by the unfriendly attitude of the Mullah, and reinforcements were brought into the Protectorate from East Africa, Uganda, Nyasaland, and India during 1909.

Subsequently, arrangements were made to arm the friendly tribes to enable them to defend themselves against attack, and in March, 1910, all troops were withdrawn from the interior; the 6th Battalion King's African Rifles was disbanded, and a policy of strict coastal concentration was then adopted. This policy having disappointed expectations, a Camel Constabulary, 150 strong, was raised at the end of 1912 to check inter-tribal fighting, which by this time had assumed serious proportions. A measure of peace among the friendly tribes was quickly restored, but in August, 1913, the Corps, at a strength of 109 rank and file, encountered at Dulmadoba a raiding party of dervishes estimated at 2,000 rifles, and in the action which ensued, though heavy losses were inflicted on the enemy, the Constabulary sustained casualties amounting to 50%, including the Commandant, killed. The force thereupon fell back on Sheikh, and reinforcements of Indian infantry were moved up from the coast. His Majesty's Government later decided to increase the forces of the Protectorate in order to preserve the necessary grazing grounds of the friendlies from dervish attack, and to maintain peace among the tribes living in the west.

In November, 1914, Military Headquarters were established at Burao, 80 miles from the coast. At this time the dervishes were in occupation of the Ain Valley, which is one of the principal grazing grounds of the friendlies. Strong forts had been constructed by the Mullah at Jidali and Shimber Berris and these were used as forward bases for raids against our tribes. The position at Shimber Berris was accordingly attacked by the local troops and after a stubborn resistance all the forts were finally captured and blown up. In 1914 the dervishes made serious raids and their aggressions went on during the war, but early in 1920 operation against them were carried out by air attacks followed up by mounted forces with infantry supports. These operations were completely successful, the power of the dervishes was destroyed, and the Mullah became a fugitive in Abyssinian territory; he died there in 1921. Since 1923 the condition of the country has been peaceful and as a result the stock wealth of the native population has largely increased while in the western areas the development of agriculture has made great progress. A geological survey of the Protectorate has been made which has shown some areas of promise.

### Statistics