Colony: Sierra Leone
Year: 1921
Section: SIERRA LEONE.
Type: narrative
---
SIERRA LEONE.

Situation and Area.

The Colony of Sierra Leone has a coast-line of 210 miles, extending between 6° 55' and 10° of N. lat., from the territory of the Republic of Liberia on the south-east, where the Manoh River forms the boundary, as far as Kiragba on the north-west; about midway on this coast there is a block of land about 23 miles in length with a mean width of about 14 miles, forming the oldest portion of the Colony; about 42 miles south-east from this block there is another about 109 miles in length, with a varying width not definitely ascertained, forming the Sherbro District. The rest of the Colony consists of a strip of land along the sea and river shores of half a mile in depth inland from high-water mark in some places, and a quarter of a mile in others; and of the Banana, Turtle, Leopard, Plantain, Yellaboi, Kortimo, Tasso, Macaulay, and other islets. The strip of shore-line was acquired for the purpose of securing an effective control over the importation of sea-borne goods into the main portions of the Colony.

Immediately adjoining the Colony of Sierra Leone lying to the northward and eastward is the Protectorate, the northern boundaries of which were defined by the Agreement between Great Britain and France which was concluded on the 21st January, 1896. The extreme depth from south to north is about 210 miles, lying between 7° and 10° N. lat., and the extreme breadth from east to west is 180 miles, lying between 10° 40' and 13° 21' of W. long. The estimated area of the Colony and Protectorate is 31,000 square miles.

History.

The Colony of Sierra Leone originated in the sale and cession by King Nebamba and his subordinate chiefs to Captain John Taylor, of His Britannic Majesty's brig "Miro," on behalf of the "free community of settlers, their heirs, and successors, lately arrived from England, and under the protection of the British Government," of a piece of land described in the treaty as extending from the bay commonly called Frenchman's Bay, but of which the name was changed to St. George's Bay, coastwise up the River Sierra Leone to Gambia Island, and southerly or inland from the riverside 20 miles. The treaty is dated 22nd August, 1788.

The main purpose of the Colony in its inception was to secure a home on the African Continent for a party of natives of Africa, and some others, who from various circumstances had been separated from the countries of their origin, and were struggling waifs in and about London. Somewhat later the Colony was much used as a settlement for Africans rescued from slave ships during the period when England was putting forth her efforts for the suppression of the over-sea traffic in slaves. The territory of the Colony received additions from time to time by various concessions from the native chiefs. Thus, on the 10th July, 1807, King Farima and King Tom ceded all the land they possessed in the peninsula of Sierra Leone lying to the westward of the Colony; and in 1861 Bai Conteh, King of Kwaia, with his chiefs, ceded a portion of the Kwaia country abutting on the Colony of Sierra Leone, measuring 10 miles in width and 16 miles in length from the River Sierra Leone to the River Ribbi, and particularly described as to its inland boundary in the Treaty of Cession. In 1825 the Governor of Sierra Leone made a treaty of cession with the King and chiefs of Sherbro, Bagru, Sherbro Island, and some other places, for the purpose of adding these countries to the territories of the Colony. This treaty was not ratified by the Crown, but was revived by a fresh agreement made in 1882. A number of other Treaties of Cession were made from time to time.

On August 21st, 1896, a Proclamation was issued of a Protectorate over the Hinterland of Sierra Leone, and Ordinances were passed providing for the administration of this Protectorate, which, by Order-in-Council No. 11 of 1920 is divided into three Provinces as follows:

Northern Province Districts.—Port Lokko, Karene, Bomballi and Koinadugu.
Central Province Districts.—Moyamba, Konno, Kennema and Pendembu.
Southern Province Districts.—Bonthe, Gbangbama, Sumbuya and Pujehun.
Central Province { Mendis, Sherbros, Munnuna,
a few Kinas.
Southern Province { Mendis, Krama, Sherbros,
Gallinas and Vais.

(c)
from high water mark in some places, and a quarter of a mile in others; and of the Banana, Turtle, Leopard, Plantain, Yellaboi, Kortimo, Tasso, Macaulay, and other islets. The strip of Central Province Districts.—Koyama, Konno, Kenema and Pendembu.

Southern Province Districts.—Bonthe, Gbangbama, Sumbuya and Pujehun.
The Sherbro District (Capital, Bonthe), which comprises the Island of Sherbro and York Island, and the Headquarters District (Capital, Waterloo), which includes the Peninsula of Sierra Leone outside the Freetown area, are entirely in the Colony.

General Description.

The peninsula of Sierra Leone is about 25 miles in length, and from 10 to 12 miles in breadth at its widest part. It is one of the few points on the African coast where there is high land near the sea. It is formed by a range of volcanic mountains, running parallel to the sea from N.N.W. to S.S.E., the summits of which, in the Sugar Loaf and Leicester Mountains, rise in conical form to a height of from 2,000 to 3,000 feet. The mountains are composed principally of syenite, and are thickly wooded. They are intersected by ravines and small valleys, and there are considerable tracts of level ground, especially on the eastern side of the peninsula, where it sinks to the mainland.

The configuration of the Protectorate varies much in different localities. The parts on the banks of the rivers are low and swampy, while away from the rivers the country consists of low rolling downs, with here and there a range of hills some 3,000 feet in height. Unlike many regions on the West Coast of Africa, the country is for the most part well watered by rivers and running streams. The principal rivers which empty themselves into the Atlantic on the Sierra Leone Coast are the Great and Little Skarocies, the Sierra Leone or Rokell, the Sherbro, the Jong, the Manneh or Mano, the Ribbi, Bum, Kittam, and Moa, most of which are navigable for several miles.

The capital, Freetown, lies about four miles up the Sierra Leone River, at the foot of a chain of hills rising 2,300 feet above the sea. In 1911 it contained 34,090 inhabitants. It possesses the best harbour in West Africa, and is an important coaling station and a port of registry.

The peninsula of Sierra Leone and the lands immediately adjoining have a population (including Freetown and its Districts) of 75,318. It yields only a small quantity of exportable commodities. The extent of the territory is small, the generally rocky soil is not very well adapted for cultivation, and the people of the Colony seem not much attracted to that form of industry.

Considerable quantities of palm kernels, palm oil, piasava, with other articles of lesser importance are exported via Bonthe in the Southern Province.

Many districts in the Protectorate are fertile and well adapted to the growth of oil palms, indiarubber trees and vines, bene seed, kola nuts, gum-producing trees, ginger, cocoa, rice, and other tropical products. No minerals have been discovered, except iron, which can hardly be reckoned as of exportable value.

The population of the Protectorate was in 1911 estimated at 1,327,560 and is composed of the following tribes:

Northern Province { Temnes, Limbas, Susus, Lokkos, Foulahs, Mandingoes, Korankos, Yalunkas,
Central Province { Mendis, Sherbros, Konnohs, a few Kissis.
Southern Province { Mendis, Krima, Sherbros, Gallinas and Vais.

Constitution.

A Charter, issued on May 27th, 1863, created an Executive Council for the Colony composed of four members nominated by the Crown. The Legislative Council was to consist of the members of the Executive Council and nominated members.

A Charter, dated the 19th of February, 1866, established a Central Government of the settlements on the West Coast of Africa, with the seat of government at Sierra Leone.

A new Charter, dated the 24th of July, 1874, revoked so much of the Charter of the 19th of February, 1866, as provided for the government of the Gold Coast and Lagos under the Governor-in-Chief of the West Africa Settlements, and those settlements were erected into a distinct government. A further Charter, dated 17th of December, 1874, erected a new government of the "West Africa Settlements," consisting of Sierra Leone and the Gambia, and created a Legislative Council in each settlement, consisting of the officer administering the government, and not less than two other persons, to be designated by royal instructions or warrant. New letters patent dated 17th June, 1885, provided for the continuance of the government on the same lines, with some minor differences. By letters patent of 28th Nov., 1888, the Gambia was again made a separate government. According to the same letters patent, the Governor of Sierra Leone is aided by an Executive Council composed of four officials and the officer in command of the troops. The Legislative Council, of which the Governor is ex-officio president, is composed of the members of the Executive Council, with the exception of the Comptroller of Customs as ex-officio members, together with the Senior District Commissioner, not ex-officio, and the Principal Medical Officer as official members, and four unofficial members nominated by the Crown.

On March 7, 1913, an Imperial Order-in-Council was issued providing for the administration of the Protectorate of Sierra Leone. The Order applies to the territories, not being portions of the Colony of Sierra Leone, lying between the sixth and tenth degrees of north latitude and the tenth and fourteenth degrees of west longitude, and beginning at the extreme southerly point of the Colony on the Anglo-Liberian boundary, as delimited under the provisions of the Anglo-Liberian Convention, November 11, 1885, and January 21, 1911.
