Colony: Sierra Leone
Year: 1940
Section: Means of Communication.
Type: narrative
---
Means of Communication.

Mail steamers leave Liverpool for Freetown and Freetown for Plymouth and Liverpool every fortnight. The passage takes about 10 days.

In 1939, Freetown, Sierra Leone, was included as an airport of call on the French Aeromaritime Service operating between Dakar and Point Noire weekly in each direction and also connecting with Air France Services from Dakar to Europe and South America. Airmails are exchanged between Sierra Leone and places abroad by means of these services. There is also alternative connection to South and East Africa and the Far East by Imperial Airways Service from Accra which is also included as an airport on the French Aeromaritime schedule. Cable and Wireless Limited owns and operates cable and wireless stations at Freetown whence telegraphic communication is maintained with all parts of the world through the Company's system and with ships at sea.

The main line of the Sierra Leone Government Railway, which was the first Railway to be constructed in British West Africa, runs from the Freetown terminus to Pendembu in the Railway District, a distance of 227½ miles. The number of stations and flag stations is 53. From Banya Junction, 64½ miles from Freetown, a branch line runs to Makeni, a distance of 82½ miles. The gauge of the Railway is 2 ft. 6 in. The Marampa railway running from the iron ore deposits at Marampa to Pepel, the port of shipment, is 57½ miles long. The railway is open only for the transport of iron ore.

The total railway receipts for 1938 were 177,230L; the working expenses for the same year were 153,562L. There are 1,966 miles of combined telegraph and telephone lines in operation.

There are 850 miles of first-class roads in the Protectorate constructed and maintained by the Public Works Department, about 164 miles of Chiefs' roads of an inferior standard of construction and about 81 miles of roads constructed and maintained by private companies.

In the Colony peninsula there are about 124 miles of first-class roads including 21 miles with tarred surfaces mainly in Freetown and its vicinity.

The Sherbro river is navigable by ocean-going vessels as far as York Island, about 45 miles from the entrance, and the Sierra Leone river as far as Pepel, some 15 miles above Freetown.

The Great Scarcies river, the Little Scarcies river, the Port Loko Creek, the Ribbi river,
Bumpeh river, Cockboro river, Yaltukka river, Bagru river and Jong river are all navigable by small craft up to about 7 feet draft for from 20 to 30 miles from their entrances.

The Kittam River is navigable for launches to Mopaima (about 80 miles) all the year and for six months to Pujehun. Much of the produce from the Pujehun District is thus transported to Bonthe.

There are 70 post offices and postal agencies. The estimated number of letters, &c., handled in 1938 was 2,220,500; of parcels 38,636, of which the Inland Post dealt with 1,346,100 and 14,296 respectively.
