Colony: Sierra Leone
Year: 1953
Section: Freetown Airport (Lungi) is the only international airport in the territory and is operated by the Government Department of Civil Aviation. Air services are operated through Freetown Airport by West African Airways Corporation which connect Sierra Leone to the other three British West African territories and provide a twice-weekly service to the United Kingdom connecting with the B.O.A.C. South American trunk route at Dakar. Other operators using Freetown are Air France and, occasionally, Transporte Aeros Portugese. Meteorological services are available and are a part of the British West African Meteorological Service with headquarters at Lagos.
Type: narrative
---
Freetown Airport (Lungi) is the only international airport in the territory and is operated by the Government Department of Civil Aviation. Air services are operated through Freetown Airport by West African Airways Corporation which connect Sierra Leone to the other three British West African territories and provide a twice-weekly service to the United Kingdom connecting with the B.O.A.C. South American trunk route at Dakar. Other operators using Freetown are Air France and, occasionally, Transporte Aeros Portugese. Meteorological services are available and are a part of the British West African Meteorological Service with headquarters at Lagos.

The railway carried 1,214,951 passengers and 114,725 tons of freight in 1951. The gauge of the railway is 2 ft. 6 in. and the mileage maintained (including sidings) totalled 315. This mileage included a branch line covering a distance of 82½ miles. The Marampa railway (3 ft. 6 in. gauge) is operated by the Sierra Leone Development Company Limited for the purpose of carrying iron ore from Marampa to Pepel, a distance of 57½ miles.

There are 2,212 miles of road (1951)—bituminous surface 95 miles, gravel or earth surface, 2,117 miles.

Freetown is a port of British Shipping Registry, four miles up the Sierra Leone River and has one of the finest harbours in Africa. Smaller ports are at Pepel, Bonthe and Sulima. Freetown handled 1,386,702 and 1,476,983 tons of shipping in 1950 and 1951 respectively. Pepel is a loading port for iron ore from the Marampa mines; Bonthe and Sulima are loading ports for local produce such as palm kernels, palm oil and piassava. Passenger and cargo services to the United Kingdom are provided by Elder Dempster Lines, Limited, and Palm Line, Limited, and to the Continent by Holland West Africa Line. A limited cargo service to the east coast ports of America is provided by Elder Dempster Lines,
Limited, and the Barber Steamship Lines, and to South Africa by J. P. Holmen, Limited, and Elder Dempster Lines, Limited.

The total of inland waterways is approximately 493 miles but several of these rivers are only navigable for three months of the year when the rivers are in flood. A considerable amount of local produce is transported to Freetown by launches from the Great and Little Scarcies River in the north and Bonthe River to the south.

There is no direct broadcasting, but Government operates a wired broadcasting system in Freetown to which there were 2,503 subscribers in August 1952. In the same month the number of licences issued to owners of private sets was 568. The operation and maintenance of the station is in charge of the Posts and Telegraphs Department while the rediffusion programmes are arranged by the Public Relations Department. This Department also issues the publication "Weekly Bulletin" which has a circulation of 5,000.

It is estimated that over half the population are engaged in agriculture. Returns from employers of six or more workers show the numbers employed in the main industrial groups as follows:—Building and construction 11,434; mining 7,486; transport (road, rail and air) 3,930; maritime and waterfront 4,781; Army and Navy services 1,624; commercial and miscellaneous 3,579; Government and Native Administration (excluding workers in other groups) 12,344. Smaller employers provide employment for an estimated additional 30,000 workers of whom a large proportion are domestic servants. The total number of workers in wage-earning employment is therefore approximately 80,000.

There were at the beginning of 1952, 11 registered workers' unions with a total membership of 16,659.

The main crops and products are palm kernels and palm oil, piassava, rice, cocoa, coffee, groundnuts, cassava, bennised, kola-nuts, bananas and ginger.

The livestock population (rough estimate) is: cattle 69,000, goats 21,000, sheep 10,000, pigs 4,000.

Inshore fishing is extensive but insufficient to meet the demand in Freetown. Trawler fishing, operated by Government, has not proved successful and the venture has been closed down. The West African Fisheries Research Institute has a station at Kissy, near Freetown. Their research trawler Cape St. Mary is operated from this station.

The chief minerals are iron-ore, diamonds and chrome ore. Gold is also found, mainly by dredging. There are also deposits of ilmenite.

Seven pioneer oil mills for the expressing of palm oil are operated by the Sierra Leone Produce Marketing Board. An oil-expressing plant for the production of groundnut and kernel oil is expected to be in operation by mid-1953. It will be operated by Government. A hammer-mill will be incorporated in the plant to produce pig feed. Government operates one small and two large rice mills and there are a few privately owned mills, all on a small scale. Furniture making is carried on by Government and private enterprise. A privately owned soap factory produces approximately 100 tons of soap per year and is also being fitted with a "glycerine" recovery plant. Village industries include weaving, hand methods of expressing palm oil, and cracking of palm nuts to obtain the kernel.
