Colony: Sierra Leone
Year: 1951
Section: CONSTITUTION
Type: narrative
---
### CONSTITUTION

A charter, issued on 27th May, 1863, created an Executive Council for the Colony composed of four members nominated by the Crown. The Legislative Council was to consist of the members of the Executive Council and nominated members.

A further charter, dated 19th February, 1866, established a central government of the settlements on the West Coast of Africa, with the seat of government at Sierra Leone.

A new charter, dated 24th July, 1874, revoked so much of the charter of 19th February, 1866, as provided for the government of the Gold Coast and Lagos under the Governor-in-Chief of the West Africa settlements, and those settlements were erected into a distinct government. A further charter, dated 17th December, 1874, erected a new government of the "West Africa Settlements," consisting of Sierra Leone and the Gambia, and created a Legislative Council in each settlement, consisting of the Officer Administering the Government, and not less than two other persons, to be designated by royal instructions or warrant. New Letters Patent dated 17th June, 1885, provided for the continuance of the government on the same lines, with some minor differences. By Letters Patent of 28th November, 1888, the Gambia was again made a separate government. By Letters Patent, dated 3rd April, 1913, and Royal Instructions, dated 4th May, 1922, there were constituted an Executive Council composed of the Officer in Command of the Troops, the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney-General, the Colonial Treasurer and the Director of Medical and Sanitary Services, and a Legislative Council, composed of the members of the Executive Council and four unofficial members nominated by the Crown.

On 7th March, 1913, an Imperial Order-in-Council was issued providing for the administration of the Protectorate of Sierra Leone. The order applies to the territories, not being portions of the Colony of Sierra Leone, lying between the sixth and tenth degrees of north latitude and the tenth and fourteenth degrees of west longitude, and beginning at the extreme southerly point of the colony on the Anglo-Liberian boundary, as delimited under the provisions of the Anglo-Liberian Conventions, 11th November, 1885, and 21st January, 1911.
The Governor and Commander-in-Chief for the time being of the Colony of Sierra Leone is also the Governor of the Protectorate. Authority is given to the Governor by ordinances passed in the Legislative Council to exercise and give effect to the powers and jurisdiction acquired by the Crown in Sierra Leone.

Letters Patent, dated 28th January, 1924, revoked those issued on 3rd April, 1913, and made fresh provision for the appointment of the Governor and Commander-in-Chief, and instructions issued under the Royal Sign Manual and Signet on the same date cancelled those of 3rd April, 1913, and 4th May, 1922. An Order of the King in Council, dated 16th January, 1924, provided for a new and considerably enlarged Legislative Council, introducing an elective element and direct representation of Protectorate interests into the constitution of that Council for the first time in the history of Sierra Leone.

Proposals for a revised constitution providing for a majority of non-official members and for a larger representation for the Protectorate have been under discussion by various interested parties since 1947, and were published as a Sessional Paper in 1948. Efforts to form a Representative Committee in 1949 to consider the proposals further proved fruitless and the Secretary of State has now approved the proposals, slightly amended, which were put forward in 1948. These have been published as Sessional Paper No. 2 of 1950.
