Colony: Sierra Leone
Year: 1955
Section: Constitution
Type: narrative
---
Constitution

That part of Sierra Leone administered as a Colony includes the Sierra Leone Peninsula, Tasso Island, Banana Island, and York Island, and the township of Bonthe on Sherbro Island.

Royal Instructions of 1951 provide for an Executive Council of four ex officio members and no less than four unofficial members appointed from among the elected members of the Legislative Council. An Order in Council of 1951 provides for a Legislative Council consisting of 32 members, including the Governor (who is President) and a Vice-President. There are seven ex-officio members, seven members elected from the Colony districts, twelve members elected from the Protectorate District Councils, two members elected from the Protectorate Assembly, and two nominated members appointed by the Governor. This Order in Council contains provisions in connexion with legislative procedure which previously were included in the Letters Patent. It does not, however, contain the procedure for the election of members to the Legislative Council. This is now provided for in a local Statute, the Legislative Council (Elections) Ordinance, 1951.

An amendment to the Royal Instructions made in April 1953 vests the six unofficial members of Executive Council with the title and responsibilities of Ministers.

With regard to the Protectorate, in 1951, under the provisions of the District Councils Ordinance, 1950, the basis of representation of Chiefdoms in the District Councils was broadened by the addition of three members who may be either appointed by the Chiefdom representatives in the District Council or elected for a particular area. By the same Ordinance executive and financial responsibilities were vested in the Councils to enable them to take their full part in the development of the Protectorate. Their revenues are derived from Native Administrations and from grants made by Government and by the Sierra Leone Produce Marketing Board.