Colony: Sierra Leone
Year: 1960
Section: Taxation
Type: narrative
---
Taxation

There are two forms of direct taxation in force: income tax and local tax. Income tax is chargeable on individuals at graduated rates (beginning at 6d. in the £) subject to personal reliefs and other deductions. An unmarried man is granted £300, and a married man £500 as an initial relief; there are allowances up to a maximum of £400 for children (not more than eight) up to the age of 16 years or so long as they are receiving whole-time education; and for life assurance premiums within certain limits. Companies pay a flat rate of 9s. in the £. A double taxation agreement has been concluded with Her Majesty's Government and with a number of other Governments including Ghana, Nigeria and Gambia.

With effect from the 1st April 1960, the Income Tax scale of allowances is being reduced in order to bring within the orbit of the taxation system salaries at a lower level. An attempt has been made by means of an abatement at the 1s. rate of tax to avoid increasing the incidence of tax on those taxpayers who pay at the full 1s. rate or more e.g. from the 1st April 1960 a single man will be given only £200 personal allowance and a married man £300 in place of £300 and £500 respectively. These reductions will be chargeable at 6d. The next £400 of chargeable income will be chargeable at 6d. also, but from the 1s. tax will be abated the amount (or part of it) that has been paid at 6d. on the reduced allowances.

A Local Tax Ordinance introduced in 1954 replaces the House Tax, formerly paid by all adult native males, by a Local Tax. This is at present subject to a maximum of 25s. per head, and within chiefdoms is paid at a fixed rate. In general terms payment applies to all adult male persons residing in each chiefdom and in certain cases to adult females also. Revenue from this tax is divided between District Councils and Native Administrations.

The main form of indirect taxation is the Customs tariff.