Colony: Sierra Leone
Year: 1886
Section: § II. Suspension and Dismissal from Office.
Type: narrative
---
§ II. Suspension and Dismissal from Office.

81. Holders of patent offices may be removed from such offices by the Governor and Council under the second section of the Act 22 Geo. 3., c. 75 (amended by 54 Geo. 3., c. 61); but care must be taken that the officer is heard after being apprised of the charge against him, and it will be convenient that the course prescribed in case of suspension should be pursued in any proceedings for removal.

82. Against any such removal an appeal lies to Her Majesty in Council, which should be prosecuted like any other appeal.

83. The following Rules, unless the mode of suspension is otherwise provided for by some local law, must be strictly observed in proceeding to suspend from the exercise of his office any public officer who has been appointed by virtue of a commission or warrant from the Crown, or whose emoluments exceed 100l. a year.

84. The Governor shall signify to the officer, by a statement in writing, the grounds of the intended suspension, and shall call upon him to state in writing before a day to be specified (which day must allow a reasonable interval for the purpose) any grounds upon which he relies to exculpate himself.

85. If the officer does not furnish such statement within the time fixed by the Governor, or if he fails to exculpate himself to the satisfaction of the Governor, the Governor shall apprise the officer that on a day (to be specified), the question of his suspension will be brought before the Executive Council (or, in British Guiana, before the official members of the Court of Policy), and that he will be allowed, and, if the Council so determine, required to appear before the Council and defend himself orally.

86. If any witnesses are examined by the Council, the officer must be allowed the opportunity of being present, and of putting questions on his own behalf. The officer must also be given a copy of any documentary evidence that is to be used against him, and that has not been already furnished to him.

87. If in the course of the inquiry further grounds of suspension are disclosed, the Governor, if he thinks fit to proceed upon such grounds, shall furnish the officer with a written statement thereof, and shall take the same steps as are above prescribed in respect of the original grounds of suspension.

88. If in any case the Governor considers that the interests of the public service require that an officer should cease to exercise the powers and functions of his office (as, for instance, in the custody of public money) instantly, or before the proceedings above prescribed can be completed, he may at once interdict the officer from the exercise of the powers and functions of his office. The Governor shall in all cases allow the interdicted officer to receive half the salary of his office, until proceedings for his suspension have been taken, and may in special cases allow a larger amount not exceeding the full salary; but no such officer can be formally suspended from his office or deprived of his whole salary, except upon formal proceedings as are above prescribed, which must in all cases be taken with as little delay as possible.

89. If upon the inquiry the Executive Council are of opinion that the officer deserves punishment, but not the full penalty of suspension, the Governor may remove the officer to an office of lower rank in the service, or may require him to serve in his original office at a reduced salary, either permanently or for a stated period, or may deduct a portion of salary due or about to become due to the officer.

90. If the officer is suspended or otherwise punished as above mentioned, the Governor shall, without loss of time, report the matter to the Secretary of State for approval and confirmation, transmitting the minutes of Council, the written statements, and all material documents relating to the case.
If the officer is suspended, the Governor shall at the same time transmit the usual return required in the case of a vacancy. (A form will be found in the Appendix p. 337.)

91. If the officer is suspended, the Secretary of State, instead of confirming the suspension, may direct the Governor to subject the officer to one of the lesser punishments above mentioned; or if, in lieu of suspension, the officer has been so punished by the Governor, the Secretary of State may direct the Governor to reduce or to increase the punishment already awarded.

92. If the suspension of an officer is not approved and confirmed by the Secretary of State, and no other punishment is awarded, the officer will be entitled to the full amount of salary which he would have received if he had not been suspended, even though the officer discharging the functions of the office in the meanwhile has been allowed to receive some portion of the salary of the office.

93. If the suspension is approved and confirmed by the Secretary of State, all salary will cease from the day of suspension; and although the officer should be subsequently restored (as an act of indulgence), he will not be entitled to any portion of salary during the period of his suspension. Pending the decision of the Secretary of State the Governor, with the advice of the Executive Council, may grant a small alimentary allowance to an officer who has been suspended, and who appears urgently to need such assistance.

94. An officer whose suspension is approved and confirmed by the Secretary of State forfeits all claim to a retiring allowance, even though he should have paid contributions towards such allowance.

95. If criminal proceedings are instituted against a public officer, proceedings for his suspension upon any grounds involved in the criminal charge shall not be taken pending the criminal proceedings.

96. If an officer is convicted on a criminal charge the Governor may cause the proceedings of the Criminal Court on such charge to be laid before the Executive Council, and if the Council are of opinion that the officer should be suspended on account of the offence for which he has been convicted, he may thereupon be suspended without taking any of the proceedings above prescribed, but his suspension must be reported to the Secretary of State for approval and confirmation.

96. (a) An officer acquitted on a criminal charge is not thereby rendered exempt from suspension on account of his conduct in the matter; and the Governor, if he thinks fit, may take the usual proceedings for the purpose.

96. (b) An officer who is under suspension may not leave the Colony, during the interval before he is reinstated or dismissed, without the leave of the Governor. If granted leave of absence the officer will not be entitled to any more salary than if he had remained in the Colony.

96. (c) Any officer, whether under suspension or not, who absents himself from the Colony without leave, will be held to have thereby vacated his office.

96. (d) An officer who has not been appointed by virtue of a commission or warrant from the Crown, and whose emoluments do not exceed 100l. a year, may be dismissed by the Governor without the proceedings above prescribed; but in every such case the grounds of dismissal must be definitely stated in writing, and communicated to the officer that he may have full opportunity of excusing himself, and the matter must be investigated by the Governor with the aid of the head of the department (if any). Such dismissals will not require the confirmation of the Secretary of State, but any memorial from the dismissed officer must be forwarded to the Secretary of State without delay, with a short statement of the grounds of dismissal.

§ III. Pensions and Retiring Allowances.