Colony: Sierra Leone
Year: 1886
Section: § II. Leave of absence.
Type: narrative
---
§ II. Leave of absence.

118. The Acts of Parliament, 22 Geo. 3, cap. 75, and 54 Geo. 3, cap. 61, empower the Governor and Council of any Colony to grant leave of absence to Colonial Officers.

119. Subject to the necessities of the service leave of absence may be granted after a period of six years' resident service in the Colony without any special grounds. It may be given before the expiration of that period in cases of serious indisposition, or of "urgent private affairs," if the Governor and Council are satisfied that the indulgence is indispensible. In cases of serious indisposition, the state of the officer's health must be certified by his medical attendant. In cases of "urgent private affairs," the nature of such urgent affairs must be stated to the Governor.

120. In the absence of special grounds the leave in such case must not exceed one-sixth of the Officer's resident service. On special grounds it may exceed that period by six months, but it must in neither case exceed twelve months.

121. The Governor may report to the Secretary of State the period for which the leave may be extended without injury to the public service, but must not recommend such extension. The Officer seeking an extension must apply at least one clear month before the time when he ought to start in order to reach the Colony before the end of his existing leave.

122. Governors are required by the Act 54 Geo. 3, cap. 61, to report to the Secretary of State for confirmation, each case in which leave of absence has been granted, under a penalty not exceeding in each case £100.; they must also transmit a Certificate in the form inserted in the Appendix (page 339), and a similar Certificate in case the Governor should afterwards recommend an extension of leave. If the Officer is paid by fees, they must also report what arrangements are made respecting the disposal of those fees during the Officer's absence.

123. An Officer to whom leave of absence has been granted, is in general entitled to half salary during his absence from the Colony. Any private arrangement made with the object of securing to the absent Officer more than the authorised allowance is on no account to be allowed. No advance of salary will be granted to the absent Officer in order to enable him to return to the Colony.

124. Stipendiary Magistrates on leave may receive so much of their allowance for house rent as may not be wanted for the Acting Officers, the amount so allowed being reported to the Secretary of State; but they must receive no part of their allowance for horse hire.

125. Governors are to furnish every Officer proceeding on leave of absence with a duplicate of the despatch to the Secretary of State, reporting his leave, and a duplicate of the Certificate above mentioned; and an absent officer cannot receive his half salary in this country, nor any extension of his leave, unless he produces such Certificate.

126. The Regulations respecting the stoppage of half the salaries of Civil officers on obtaining leave of absence are to be applied, as far as practicable, to the case of Ministers of Religion in the Colonies, receiving salary from Colonial or Imperial Funds. Leave in these cases is to be granted by the Governor of the colony on the recommendation of the Bishop or other superintending Authority (if any) of the Body to which the Minister may belong, and subject to the same rules as in the case of Civil Officers in regard to the confirmation and extension.

127. To whatever extent the authority of the Queen, or of Her Majesty's Officers, may be competent to enforce it, the further rule must be observed, that no Minister of Religion must be permitted to absent himself from the Colony in which he serves, until adequate and satisfactory provision shall have been made for the performance of his clerical duties during his absence, unless the state of his health absolutely requires it.

128. The same rules extend to leave of absence granted to Judicial Functionaries of every Class.
129. In cases where salaries are fixed by law, the rule as to half salary can always be applied by the Governor's declining to grant leave unless on condition of conforming to it.

130. On his arrival in this country the officer on leave must report himself, either personally or by letter, to the Colonial Office, producing or transmitting the Governor's despatch, and mentioning the place of his residence, and he must notify any subsequent change of residence. Treasurers and auditors of colonies, whose accounts are subjected to Imperial audit, should also leave their address at the office of the Comptroller and Auditor-General. (Enclosure to circular despatch of the 30th November, 1890.)

131. Leave of absence will be extended by the Secretary of State, but not as a matter of course, nor unless the public convenience admits of it.*

132. Except in very special cases, as of unbroken official residence in the same Colony for fifteen years, no extensions will exceed six months at a time, nor will any officers on leave be allowed to receive half salary at any one time for more than the following periods:

- Heligoland and Mediterranean: 9 months.
- West Indies, Bermuda, Western Australia, British Columbia, Natal, St. Helena, and Falkland Islands: 18 "
- West Coast of Africa, Mauritius, Ceylon, Hong Kong, Straits Settlements, and Labuan: 24 "

Nor for a period which, added to his previous absences on leave with half salary, would exceed by six months one-sixth of his resident service in the Colony. Absence without salary will not be counted against him in calculating his claim for further leave of absence, nor for him, with certain exceptions, in calculating his pension.

133. The foregoing regulations are not designed to prevent, or to regulate, any vacation for the purpose of relaxation from business, not exceeding, in the case of ordinary Civil Officers, three months in any two years. In the case of Judicial or Educational Officers, the vacation leave may extend to, but must not exceed, the ordinary vacations of the court to which they belong, or the institution in which they are employed; and they may, when absent on half-pay leave, receive full pay during any ordinary vacation of such court or institution which may be included in the period of their leave of absence. In Colonies where there is no ordinary vacation of the court or no vacation exceeding one month at one time, Judicial Officers may have the leave allowed to ordinary Civil Officers. Vacation leave need not be reported to the Secretary of State unless the officer intends or is likely to visit England, in which case his departure must be reported as required when leave of absence is granted. There is no abatement of salary during vacation leave; but the leave must be recorded under the Governor's hand, and the officer absenting himself must, with the concurrence or sanction of the Governor, have made such arrangements as may be necessary for the adequate discharge of his duties without cost to the public.

134. In cases where an officer is entitled to claim both vacation leave of six weeks or three months, and also leave on half-pay for a longer period, and comes home by permission of the Governor on vacation leave, he may apply for an additional leave of absence on half-pay, to be taken immediately on the expiration of the vacation leave, subject to the usual rules which regulate such absence, and on condition that before leaving the Colony the Officer has informed the Governor of his intention to apply for such extended leave, and that the Governor has reported to the Secretary of State his approval of such intention, and has furnished the usual certificate of leave of absence: or the Governor may give the officer leave of absence for a period not exceeding that allowed by Regulation 120, with an intimation that he will be entitled to full pay for the period for his vacation leave, and subsequently to half-pay.

135. Officers applying for leave with the intention of retiring must only receive such term of leave as will allow time for coming to a decision in England respecting the application for retirement; and the Governor giving leave under such circumstances must report them to the Secretary of State. The Officer's half-salary will in such case cease and his pension commence when his retirement is sanctioned.

136. If an Officer retires during his leave of absence without having originally given notice of his desire to do so, the period at which his half-salary is to cease must be determined according to the circumstances of the case.

§ III. Passages.