LABUAN.

The Island of Labuan is situated on the north-west coast of Borneo, in 5° 16' N. lat., and 115° 15' E. long. Its area is 286 square miles. It is distant from the coast, at the nearest point, about six miles; from Brunei, the capital of the Protected State of that name, about forty miles; and from Singapore 725 miles, or three days' steam.

The average annual rainfall is about 168 inches, and the thermometer ranges from 71° to 93°.

An attempt was made by the East India Company's servants, who were expelled from Balambangan by Sulu pirates in 1775, to establish a trading station in Labuan, but the project was soon abandoned, and for practical purposes the history of the island begins with its cession to Great Britain in 1846 by the Sultan of Brunei. It was then uninhabited. The reason for the cession, given in the treaty, by which the island was handed over to Great Britain, was that it

* The interests of this Consulate are being temporarily looked after by the Consul-General of the United States of America.

† Consul for France at Singapore with jurisdiction over the Straits Settlements, the Federated Malay States, Johore, Redah, Kelantan, Trengganu, Brunei, Sarawak and British North Borneo.
was "desirable that British ships shall have some port where they may careen and refit, and deposit such stores and merchandise as shall be necessary for the carrying on of the trade with the dominions of Brunei," and the consideration given by Great Britain was an undertaking to suppress piracy and protect lawful trade.

The island was first occupied only as a naval station under the control of a naval officer, and the formal establishment of a Crown Colony was deferred until 1848. From that date until the end of 1889 Labuan was governed as a separate Colony. Until 1869 it was assisted by grants-in-aid from the Imperial Exchequer, but this help was then withdrawn, and the Colony supported itself, though with difficulty, for the next twenty years. In 1889, the financial troubles came to a head, and, as it was thought that the island could be more economically governed in connection with the territories of the British North Borneo Company, the administration was entrusted, from the 1st January, 1890, to the care of the Company, whose principal representative in Borneo was given a commission as Governor of Labuan. This arrangement was terminated at the end of 1905, when Sir J. Anderson, Governor of the Straits Settlements, was appointed also Governor of Labuan, the island still remaining a separate Colony. On the 1st of January, 1907, Labuan was annexed to the Straits Settlements, and declared part of the settlement of Singapore. On the 1st of December, 1912, the island was constituted a separate settlement.

When the Colony of Labuan was first founded great hopes of the success of the new settlement were based upon the existence of rich coal deposits in the island, but hitherto the companies formed to develop these coal resources have not met with great success. In 1883, the Central Borneo Company was re-constructed under the name of the New Central Borneo Company, who transferred their undertaking to the Labuan and Borneo Company. This Company, in its turn, was succeeded on the 8th December, 1902, by the Labuan Coalfields Company, Limited. The mines have been closed since the beginning of 1911.

Labuan has a fine port (Victoria Harbour), perfectly safe, and easy of access. Vessels drawing 23 feet can go alongside the outside jetty (not at present in use), and vessels drawing 15 feet alongside the coaling jetties. Ships are supplied with water at $1 per ton and H.M. ships with coal, at 2l. 2s. 4d. per ton.

It is a market for much of the produce of the neighbouring coasts of Borneo and the Sulu Archipelago, such as sago, beeswax, edible birds' nests, camphor, gutta-percha, indiarubber, rattans, tortoise-shell, and bêche-de-mer, which are forwarded by the Labuan traders to Singapore. Cattle and goats are reared, and 2,000 acres are estimated to be under cultivation. There are sago factories in the island, where the raw material received from the coast is converted into sago flour, which is exported to Singapore.

There is a branch of the Government Post Office Savings Bank in Labuan, but no other bank. The currency is Straits dollars and Straits subsidiary coins. Straits notes are also available in Labuan.

The inhabitants are chiefly Malays and other natives from Brunei, and Chinese, the latter being mostly petty traders.

There are two schools, viz.:—The Government English School, and the Vernacular School which are maintained by the Government.

A reservoir owned by the Government supplies the town of Victoria and shipping with drinking water.

The Eastern Extension, Australasian and China Telegraph Company has a station on the island connected by cable with Singapore, Hong Kong and North Borneo. The nearest point in telegraphic communication with Europe is Singapore.

A weekly service of steamers plying between Singapore, North Borneo Ports and the Philippines provides Labuan with a regular communication with these places; there are, in addition, local coasting steamers. A number of larger seagoing vessels call at the Port for bunker and cargo coal and water.

A rifle range affords facilities for H.M. ships exercising their crews; and provisions are supplied by a Navy contractor.

The chief sources of revenue are harbour dues, land rents and licences.

Population.

Census of 1901, 8,411, of whom 51 were Europeans.
Census of 1911, 6,546.
Census of 1921, 5,956.

Establishment.

Resident and District Judge, H. J. Eley (acting).
Medical Officer, T. C. A. Cleverton.
Harbour Master and Deputy Superintendent, Government Monopolies, E. G. Goldfinch.
Assistant Engineer in Charge, Public Works Department, Captain H. M. S. Haughton.
Chief Police Officer, G. A. McAfee.

