PITCAIRN ISLANDS GROUP

The small, volcanic island of Pitcairn (1·75 sq. miles: 4·6 sq. km) is situated in the Pacific Ocean (25° 04' south; 130° 06' west) roughly equidistant between Panama and New Zealand and 1,350 miles east-south-east of Tahiti. It is a rugged island
rising to 1,100 feet and even at Bounty Bay, the principal landing-place, access from the sea is difficult. The climate is equable. Mean monthly temperatures vary from 66°F (19°C) in August to 75°F (24°C) in February: the average annual rainfall is 80 inches, fairly evenly spread throughout the year; and moderate easterly winds predominate with short east to south-east gales occurring between April and September.

The early history of Pitcairn is uncertain but archaeological remains prove it was inhabited some six hundred years ago by Polynesians at least for short periods. Modern history began with its discovery by Carteret in 1767 and occupation by Fletcher Christian and nine of the Bounty mutineers, accompanied by twelve Tahitian women and six men, in 1790. Although an American vessel called at the island in 1808 it was not until the visit of HMS Briton and HMS Tagus in 1814 that the story of the Pitcairn settlement became widely known. The first decade had been marked by jealousies and violence and by 1800 the only adult male survivor was John Adams who guided and led the small community until his death in 1829. In 1814 the population numbered 40; and by 1831 it had increased to 86 of whom 79 were born and bred Pitcairn Islanders. Concern for the future led to evacuation to Tahiti in 1831 but within six months the Pitcairners were back home, less 17 of them who had died during the absence. In 1856 the population had reached 194 and the island was again abandoned, a new home having been provided by the British Government on Norfolk Island off the east coast of Australia. By 1864, however, 43 Pitcairners had found their way back and since then the island has been permanently settled, the population reaching a peak of 233 in 1937. In the last 20 years there has been steady emigration to New Zealand and the population has now fallen below the hundred.

Pitcairn is a British settlement under the British Settlements Act, 1887 but the islanders count their recognition as a colony from 1838 when Captain Elliott of HMS Fly gave them a constitution, with universal adult suffrage, and a code of law. In 1893 a parliamentary form of government was adopted and in 1898 the island was brought under the jurisdiction of the High Commissioner for the Western Pacific in Suva which, for the next 20 years was exercised through the British Consul in Tahiti. A further change in the constitution in 1904 restored the simpler pattern of 1838 which was retained as the basis for the wider reforms of 1940. In 1952, the Pitcairn Order in Council transferred responsibility for administration to the person of the Governor of Fiji following the separation of the offices of Governor and High Commissioner. The Local Government Ordinance of 1964 constitutes a Council of ten members of whom four are elected, five are nominated (three by the elected members and two by the Governor) and one is an ex officio member, the Island Secretary. The Council is presided over by the Island Magistrate who is elected triennially. All other members hold office for one year. Liaison between the Governor and Council is effected by a Commissioner in the South Pacific Office in Suva.

Land is held under a system of family ownership, based upon the original division of the island by Fletcher Christian and his companions. Alienation to foreigners is not forbidden by law but, as a general rule, the only rights to pass are to their descendants by marriage to a Pitcairn Islander. The control of entry for the purposes of settlement further protects the customary tenure of land.

The public accounts are kept in £ Sterling but the £ New Zealand is the principal currency in everyday use. There is no taxation and revenue is mainly derived from the sale of postage stamps. Revenue in 1964/65 was approximately £42,000 including a development grant of £7,500 from Britain and expenditure £35,000. Development works have largely been concentrated on telecommunications, improvements to the boat harbour at Bounty Bay and tractors for roadworks and transportation.

Free primary education is provided on the island under the direction of a qualified schoolteacher seconded by the New Zealand Department of Education. A trained nurse, usually the wife of the Pastor, looks after the general health of the community assisted by surgeons of passing ships when necessary and Government meets two-thirds of transport and hospital costs if a patient has to be transferred to New Zealand. The Islanders have been adherents of the Seventh Day Adventist Church since 1887.

Pitcairn is on the direct shipping line between the Panama Canal and New Zealand and 41 ships called in 1964. Since 1962 regular calls have been made only by passenger-cargo vessels of the Shaw, Savill and Albion Company. Shore to ship communication is by diesel launch. A modern telecommunications station maintains contact with the outside world via Rarotonga in the Cook Islands.

The community is essentially farming and fishing in character. The fertile soil of the valleys produces a wide variety of sub-tropical crops which are used for subsistence and money income is earned by the sale of postage stamps and handicrafts. An official Souvenir Agency has been established.

The uninhabited islands of Henderson lying 105 miles east-north-east of Pitcairn; Oeno, 75 north-west; and Ducie 293 miles east form part of the Colony. The first two islands are visited regularly by the Pitcairn Islanders.

Governor—Sir Derek Jakeway, K.C.M.G., O.B.E., Government House, Suva, Fiji.

Commissioner—T. R. Cowell, South Pacific Office, Suva, Fiji.
Island Magistrate/President of Council—J. L. Christian, Adamstown, Pitcairn Island.
Education Officer—J. H. Forster, Adamstown, Pitcairn Island.

READING LIST

1. Luke, Sir H. Islands of the South Pacific. Harrap, 1962.
2. Nordhoff, C. and Hall, J. N. Pitcairn's Island. Chapman & Hall, 1935.
3. Ross, A. S. C. and Moverley, A. W. The Pitcairnese Language. Andre Deutsch, 1964.
4. Schubert, E. The Pitcairn Island Story. Longmans, Green, 1961.
