THE FEDERATION OF RHODESIA AND NYASALAND

History

Closer political association between Southern Rhodesia, Northern Rhodesia and Nyasaland has been under consideration for many years. A Royal Commission under the chairmanship of Lord Bledisloe reported in 1939 (Cmd. 5949) that the time was not then ripe for amalgamation or (although they did not consider such a solution in detail) for federation. They recommended instead the establishment of regular consultative machinery. This was set up in 1945 in the form of a Central African Council, after a delay due largely to the war.

The limitations of purely consultative machinery led to the revival of the idea of closer political association and the then Secretary of State for the Colonies, the Right Honourable James Griffiths, M.P., stated in the House of Commons on the 8th November, 1950, that His Majesty's Government had decided that there should be a fresh examination of the problem. Subsequently a conference of officials of the interested Governments met in March 1951 and its report (Cmd. 8233) published in June 1951 set out the need for closer association and recommended urgent action. It rejected amalgamation and recommended a scheme for a federation under which the Central Government would have certain specified powers, the remainder being left with the territorial Governments; the Constitution was to include special safeguards for African interests.

His Majesty's Government described the report as "a constructive approach to the problem" and announced that no decision would be taken on the proposals until there had been full discussion and time for opinion to crystallize. In August and September, 1951, discussions took place in Central Africa with representatives of all communities and a conference was convened at Victoria Falls in September of that year. The nature and conclusions of the conference were set out in a communiqué dated the 21st September, 1951 (Annex II of Draft Federal Scheme, Cmd. 8573) which contemplated a further conference in 1952.

After the change of Government in the United Kingdom, a statement was made in Parliament on the 21st November, 1951, that His Majesty's Government were in full agreement with the Victoria Falls Communiqué and that they favoured a scheme of federation on the general lines recommended in the officials' report. The statement specifically endorsed assurances set out in the Victoria Falls Communiqué regarding African interests and undertook to ensure that they should be formally embodied in a Federal Constitution.

Informal talks took place in London in January 1952 with the Prime Minister of Southern Rhodesia and the Governors of Northern Rhodesia and Nyasaland; and His Majesty's Government reaffirmed that they could not agree to amalgamation of the three territories but that a further conference would be convened in April, in London, to formulate a draft scheme of federation. This conference met in London in April and May, 1952, and drew up a draft Federal Scheme, published in June 1952 (Cmd. 8573).

A final conference met in London in January 1953 to consider the draft Federal Scheme in the light of the report of three Commissions, set up on the recommendations of the previous conference. These were the Fiscal Commission, the Civil Service Preparatory Commission and the Judicial Commission. The conference agreed upon a number of improvements and incorporated them in the final Scheme, published in February 1953 (Cmd. 8754.)

The Rhodesia and Nyasaland Federation Act, 1953, empowering Her Majesty to provide for the Federation of Southern Rhodesia, Northern Rhodesia and Nyasaland, received the Royal Assent on the 14th July, 1953. The Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland (Constitution) Order in Council, 1953 (Statutory Instrument 1199) was made, together with the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland (Commencement) Order in Council, 1953, on the 1st August, 1953.

The Constitution—Preamble

The Constitution is set out in the Annex to the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland (Constitution) Order in Council. It is based closely on the final Federal Scheme. The preamble states that "Northern Rhodesia and Nyasaland should continue, under the special protection of Her Majesty, to enjoy separate Governments for so long as their respective peoples so desire, those Governments remaining responsible (subject to the ultimate authority of Her Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom) for, in particular, the control of land in those territories, and for the local and territorial political advancement of the peoples thereof;" the preamble also emphasizes that under the Federation the self-governing status of Southern Rhodesia and the protectorate status of the two Northern territories are preserved.

The Executive

The Constitution provides for a Governor-General, to be appointed by Her Majesty; and there are provisions for the appointment of a Deputy or Acting Governor-General according to circumstances. In him are vested the executive powers of the Federation, but he must appoint a Prime Minister and other Ministers, with assigned functions, and also an Executive Council; and, except in certain matters specified as within his discretion, he must act on the advice of Ministers and the Executive Council.
The Legislature

The legislative powers of the Federation are vested in the Federal Legislature, consisting of Her Majesty and the Federal Assembly composed of a Speaker and 35 Members. Of these, 26 Members—14 from Southern Rhodesia, eight from Northern Rhodesia and four from Nyasaland—are known as the "Elected Members." There are also six "specially elected African Members" (two from each territory) and three European Members (one from each territory) charged with special responsibilities for African interests. The Member from Southern Rhodesia is known as the "specially elected European Member" and the two from the Northern territories as the "specially appointed European Members."

Certain subjects, such as external affairs and defence, are exclusively within the legislative and executive competence of the Federal Government. Others, such as industrial development, health and broadcasting, are subjects on which both the Federation and the territories can legislate, although in the event of inconsistency Federal law prevails. All other matters not specified in the Constitution are reserved to the territorial Governments.

African Safeguards

There are also certain safeguards relating to African land rights, and Section 33 (1) of the Constitution states that "notwithstanding anything in this Constitution the Federal Legislature shall not have power to make provision for the acquisition, whether compulsorily or by agreement, of any African land, or of interests in or rights over any African land, otherwise than in accordance with the provisions of any of the African land laws applicable to the land in question; and any power for the compulsory acquisition of land conferred by law on the Federal Legislature shall, notwithstanding anything in that law, not be exercisable in relation to African land for the purpose of settling immigrants thereon."

The Constitution provides for a Standing Committee of the Federal Assembly, to be known as the African Affairs Board. The Board comprises the specially appointed European Members and the specially elected European Member and one of the specially elected African Members from each territory. The general function of the Board is to make representations, as provided in the Constitution, in relation to any matter within the legislative or executive authority of the Federation which the Board considers to be desirable in the interests of Africans; and, if the Government of any territory so requests, to give that Government any assistance in relation to the study of matters affecting Africans, and in particular assistance in the exchange of information. The Board has also the particular function of drawing attention to any Bill or instrument having the force of law, if that Bill or instrument is, in their opinion, a "differentiating measure" viz., a Bill or instrument by which Africans are subjected or made liable to any conditions, restrictions or liabilities disadvantageous to them to which Europeans are not also subjected or made liable, or having that effect in its practical application. The Board has the power to cause such a Bill to be reserved for the signification of Her Majesty's pleasure, subject only to a certain limited discretion given to the Governor-General to override their request. If the Governor-General assents to a Bill despite the Board's representation, he is required to report on the matter to a Secretary of State without delay.

The Judicature

The Constitution provides for a Federal Supreme Court consisting of a Chief Justice of the Federation, with not less than two and normally not more than six Federal Justices. The Federal Supreme Court has exclusive original jurisdiction in disputes between the Federation and the Territories, and certain other matters connected with the Constitution; exclusive jurisdiction to decide questions as to the interpretation of the Constitution; and exclusive appellate jurisdiction on the interpretation of the Federal or territorial Constitutions.

Finance

The Constitution defines the Federation's fiscal powers and provides for the establishment of a Loans Council. Provision is made for the transfer to the Federation of such assets, liabilities and public debt of each of the territories as are designated by a statutory Apportionment Commission as, in its opinion, necessary for purposes of the Federal Government under the terms of the Constitution.

The Public Service

The power to appoint, promote, transfer, dismiss and exercise disciplinary control of officers of the Federal Public Service is vested initially in the Governor-General; and there is provision that no person shall on ground of race only be ineligible for employment in the Federal Public Service, although in determining the suitability of any person for any employment in the Service regard may be had to the circumstances of the locality of the employment. The Order in Council provides for the early appointment of an Interim Public Service Commission, and lays down rules for the initial secondment of staff from the territories.

Amendment of the Constitution

A conference is to be convened not less than seven nor more than nine years from the date (23rd October, 1953) of the coming into force of the Constitution, to review the Constitution. In the meantime, no amendment can normally be made to the Constitution without the agreement of the Governments of the United Kingdom, of the Federation itself and of the three territories.

The Establishment of the Federation.

The Commencement Order in Council provided for the coming into force of certain parts of the Federal Constitution on the 3rd September, 1953. The Right Honourable Lord Llewellyn, G.B.E., M.C., T.D., was appointed Governor-General and Commander-in-Chief of the Federation at the beginning of August 1953, assumed his office in Salisbury (the temporary capital of the Federation) on 4th September, 1953, and, by Proclamation, brought the remainder of the Constitution into force on 23rd October, 1953. Federal responsibilities, within the exclusive list, are being taken over gradually from the territorial Governments; the only subject so far made exclusively Federal is external affairs, though the Federal Government has also exercised certain powers in connexion with immigration and defence. The Governor-General appointed an Interim
Ministry with Sir Godfrey Huggins (Federal Party) as Prime Minister. The Interim Public Service and Apportionment Commissions have been appointed, and have begun their work. The Interim Federal Government promulgated Electoral Regulations for the election of the first Federal Legislative Assembly. The poll for the election was held on 15th December, 1953, and the result for the elected members was: Federal Party 24 seats; Confederate Party 1 seat; Independent 1 seat. The following have since been sworn in as members of the Federal Government:

Prime Minister and Minister of External Affairs and Defence—The Right Honourable Sir Godfrey Huggins, C.H., K.C.M.G.

Minister of Transport and Development—Sir Roy Welensky, C.M.G.

Minister of Commerce and Industry—Sir Malcolm Barrow, C.M.G.

Minister of Finance—D. Macintyre.

Minister of Agriculture and Health—J. M. Caldicott.

Minister of Home Affairs and Education—J. M. Greenfield.

The Federal Assembly met for the first time in February 1954.

Responsibilities of Her Majesty's Government

The Secretary of State for Commonwealth Relations acts as the channel of communication between Her Majesty's Government and the Federal Government, as well as between Her Majesty's Government and the territorial Government of Southern Rhodesia. The Secretary of State for the Colonies remains responsible for the territorial affairs of Northern Rhodesia and Nyasaland.

