# NIGERIA

NIGERIA.

Situation, Area and Population.

The British Colony and Protectorate of Nigeria is situated on the north-eastern shore of that deep indentation in the western coast of the African continent known as the Gulf of Guinea, and is enclosed roughly by parallels of latitude 4° and 14° N. and by meridians of longitude 3° and 14° E.

It is bounded on the north and north-west by the military territories of the French Sudan, on the east and south-east by the Cameroons*, on the south and south-west by the waters of the Gulf of Guinea, and on the west by the French colony of Dahomey. Its greatest length from east to west is 700 miles and greatest breadth from north to south 650 miles.

By the most recent calculations the area of Nigeria is approximately 335,700 square miles, and is therefore a little less than that of the United Kingdom, France and Belgium together, or about one-third that of British India. The coloured population is estimated at 16,258,000, while the number of Europeans of all classes, on an average, in the country is 2,600.

Physiography.

Topographically speaking, Nigeria consists of four main zones or areas, each possessing characteristics peculiar to itself, as follows:

(1) An area of swamp and mangrove forest with almost impenetrable undergrowth, running parallel to the coast-line and varying in depth from 20 to 60 miles. This area, which includes the deltaic region of the River Niger, is covered by a network of creeks and traversed by numerous rivers, the most important of which are the Rivers Benin, Forcados (branch of the River Niger), Nun (branch of the River Niger), Sombeiro, Bonny, Imo, Kwa-Ibo, and Cross.

(2) A belt of dense forest with thick undergrowth extending from the western to the eastern boundary and from 50 to 100 miles in width. The southern border of this area is some 20 miles from the coast-line in the west and thence follows the northern limit of the swamp and mangrove area. Its northern edge is difficult to determine exactly, as the belt gradually changes to patches of forest alternating with thick scrub and grass plains running approximately along a line drawn in a general east-south-easterly direction from about 7° 30' N. on the western border to 6° N. on the extreme east. The country is generally undulating with scattered hills, and seldom can an extensive view be obtained; there are, however, hills rising to over 3,000 feet, and the region becomes mountainous as the Cameroons frontier is approached. The zone is well watered by numerous rivers, which with few exceptions run from north to south, and contains extremely rich palm-tree areas. There are no open spaces, except around villages and clearings for farms.

(3) A zone of comparatively open country gradually developing into park-like land and thence into open expanses covered with high grass as the watershed of the River Benue and that of the Niger (above its confluence with the Benue) are neared. The zone is generally hilly.

* The German Colony of the Cameroons, or Kamerun, has been captured and is now being administered by the French and British Governments. The British sphere is being administered by the Government of Nigeria.
Land for Settlements Act.
Chairman and Land Purchase Inspector, J. D. Ritchie, 725l.

LAND TRANSFER AND DEEDS REGISTRY.
Minister, Hon. T. M. Wilford.
Registrar-General of Land and Deeds, G. G. Bridges, 725l.

DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE, INDUSTRIES AND COMMERCE.
Minister of Agriculture and of Industries and Commerce, Hon. W. D. D. MacDonald.
Director-General of Agriculture, C. J. Reakes, D.V.So., M.R.C.V.S., 800l.
Secretary for Agriculture, F. S. Pope, 700l.

Fields and Experimental Farms Division.
Director, J. Brown, B.So. Agric. (Glas.), N.D.A. (Gt. Britt.), 700l.

Horticulture Division.
Director, T. W. Kirk, 600l.

Dairy Division.
Director, D. Cuddie, 650l.

DEPARTMENT OF TOURIST AND HEALTH RESORTS.
Minister, Hon. W. D. S. MacDonald.
General Manager, B. M. Wilson, 675l.
Balneologist (Rotorua), A. S. Herbert, M.D., B.S. (Lond.), 1,000l.

EDUCATION DEPARTMENT.
Minister of Education, Hon. J. A. Hanan.
Director of Education, W. J. Anderson, M.A., LL.D., 900l.
Assistant Director of Education, J. Caughley, M.A., 700l.
Secretary for Education, A. Bell, 600l.

PUBLIC TRUST OFFICE.
Minister, Right Hon. Sir J. G. Ward, Bart., P.C., K.C.M.G.
Public Trustee, R. Triggs, 1,000l.
Assistant Public Trustee, T. S. Ronaldson, 1,000l.; J. W. Macdonald, 1,000l.
Accountant, M. C. Barnett, 700l.
Inspector, A. Purdie, 600l.
Solicitor, E. P. Hay, 700l.

GOVERNMENT INSURANCE DEPARTMENT.
Minister, Right Hon. Sir J. G. Ward, Bart., P.C., K.C.M.G.
Commissioner, J. H. Richardson, F.F.A., F.A.S., F.I.A.V., F.I.A.N.Z., 1,000l.
Deputy Commissioner and Secretary, W. B. Hudson, 900l.
Actuary, P. Muter, F.I.A., 800l.
Supervisor of New Business, G. E. Robertson, 765l.
Chief Medical Officer, T. Cahill, M.D., 450l.
Accountant, G. W. Barltrop, 600l.
Assistant Actuary, A. T. Traversi, A.I.A., 575l.

STATE FIRE INSURANCE OFFICE.
Minister, Hon. W. D. S. MacDonald.
General Manager, C. R. C. Robieson, 800l.
Deputy General Manager, J. H. Jerram, 550l.

STATE ADVANCES DEPARTMENT.
Minister, Right Hon. Sir J. G. Ward, Bart., P.C., K.C.M.G.
Superintendent, G. F. C. Campbell (also Secretary to the Treasury).

Deputy Superintendent, W. Waddel, 550l.
Solicitor, J. B. Christie, 500l.

PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT.
Minister of Public Works, Hon. Sir W. Fraser.
Under Secretary, W. S. Short, 900l.
Chief Clerk, G. C. Godfrey, 475l.
Engineer-in-Chief, R. W. Holmes, M.I.C.E., 1,000l. (including 100l. from Marine Department, as Marine Engineer).
Chief Electrical Engineer, E Parry, B.Sc., A.M.I.C.E., M.I.E.E., 900l.
Inspecting Engineers, F. W. Furkert, A.M.I.C.E., A.M.I.M.E., 700l.; W. H. Gavin, M.I.C.E., 700l.
Staff Engineer, H. Vickerman, A.M.I.C.E., M.Sc., Auth. Sur., 525l.
Architect, J. Campbell, F.R.I.B.A., 725l.
District Engineers, Auckland, G. T. Murray, A.M.I.C.E., 550l.; Gisborne, C. E. Armstrong, 550l.; Wellington, J. da V. Louah, A.M.I.C.E., 575l.; Dunedin, C. J. McKenzie, A.M.I.C.E., 575l.; Christchurch, J. E. W. McEnnie, 460l.
Electrical Engineer, Christchurch (Lake Coleridge Power Scheme), L. Birks, M.I.M.E., B.Sc., M.I.C.E., M.I.K.E., 650l.

BISHOPS.

Church of England.
Wellington, T. H. Sprott, D.D.
Auckland, Alfred Walter Averill, M.A., D.D.
Christchurch, Churchill Julius, D.D.
Waikato, William Walmsley Sedgwick, M.A.
Nelson, William Charles Sadlier, B.D.
Dunedin, Samuel Tarratt Nevill, D.D. (Primate).
Melanesia, Cecil J. Wood, M.A., D.D.

FOREIGN CONSULS.—CONSULS OF FOREIGN COUNTRIES RESIDING IN, OR WITH JURISDICTION OVER, NEW ZEALAND, 30TH JUNE, 1918.

Argentina Republic, Vice-Consul Henry Hampton Rayward (Wellington).

Belgium, Consul (with jurisdiction over New Zealand), J. Mattheuw (Sydney); Consul-General (with jurisdiction over the Provincial Districts of Hawke's Bay, Taranaki, and Wellington) (vacant), (Wellington); Vice-Consul, G. F. Johnston (Wellington); Consul (with jurisdiction over the Districts of Canterbury, Marlborough, Nelson and Westland), Joseph James Kinsey (Christchurch); Consuls, Alexander Manuel Ferguson (Auckland), George Lyon Denniston (Dunedin); Vice-Consul, Cyril R. J. Ward (Christchurch).

Brazil, Vice-Consul, A. H. Miles (Wellington).

Chile, Consul-General for the Commonwealth of Australia and New Zealand, William Brown (Sydney); Consul, Ernest Arthur Craig (Auckland), J. Montgomery, (Christchurch); Honorary Consul, J. A. Roberts (Dunedin).

China, Lin Shih Yuan (Wellington).

Denmark, Consul-General for Australia and New Zealand, Otto Watsted, San Francisco; Consul (for North Island), Hon. Sir Francis Henry Dillon Bell, K.C.M.G., Wellington (Principal Consulate); Consul (for South Island), Henry Bylove Sorensen (Christchurch); Vice-Consuls, Robert Millas (acting) (Auckland), William Edward Perry (Hokitika), Odin Henry Moller (Dunedin), Michael Myers, (Wellington).
NIGERIA.

Situation, Area and Population.

The British Colony and Protectorate of Nigeria is situated on the north-eastern shore of that deep indentation in the western coast of the African continent known as the Gulf of Guinea, and is enclosed roughly by parallels of latitude 4° and 14° N. and by meridians of longitude 3° and 14° E.

It is bounded on the north and north-west by the military territories of the French Sudan, on the east and south-east by the Cameroons*, on the south and south-west by the waters of the Gulf of Guinea, and on the west by the French colony of Dahomey. Its greatest length from east to west is 700 miles and greatest breadth from north to south 650 miles.

By the most recent calculations the area of Nigeria is approximately 335,700 square miles, and is therefore a little less than that of the United Kingdom, France and Belgium together, or about one-third that of British India. The coloured population is estimated at 16,258,000, while the number of Europeans of all classes, on an average, in the country is 2,600.

Physiography.

Topographically speaking, Nigeria consists of four main zones or areas, each possessing characteristics peculiar to itself, as follows:

(1) An area of swamp and mangrove forest with almost impenetrable undergrowth, running parallel to the coast-line and varying in depth from 20 to 60 miles. This area, which includes the deltaic region of the River Niger, is covered by a network of creeks and traversed by numerous rivers, the most important of which are the Rivers Benin, Forcados (branch of the River Niger), Nun (branch of the River Niger), Sombreiro, Bonny, Imo, Kwa-Ibo, and Cross.

(2) A belt of dense forest with thick undergrowth extending from the western to the eastern boundary and from 50 to 100 miles in width. The southern border of this area is some 20 miles from the coast-line in the west and thence follows the northern limit of the swamp and mangrove area. Its northern edge is difficult to determine exactly, as the belt gradually changes to patches of forest alternating with thick scrub and grass plains running approximately along a line drawn in a general east-south-easterly direction from about 7° 30' N. on the western border to 6° N. on the extreme east. The country is generally undulating with scattered hills, and seldom can an extensive view be obtained; there are, however, hills rising to over 3,000 feet, and the region becomes mountainous as the Cameroons frontier is approached. The zone is well watered by numerous rivers, which with few exceptions run from north to south, and contains extremely rich palm-tree areas. There are no open spaces except around villages and clearings for farms.

(3) A zone of comparatively open country gradually developing into park-like land and thence into open expanses covered with high grass as the watershed of the River Benue and that of the Niger (above its confluence with the Benue) are neared. The zone is generally hilly.

* The German Colony of the Cameroons, or Kamerun, has been captured and is now being administered by the French and British Governments. The British sphere is being administered by the Government of Nigeria.
which decreases rapidly as it travels inland. At Brass, on the coast, the rainfall recorded in direct relations with the great interior.

(c)
France

Greece,

Hondu

Italy,

Japan,

Liberia

Mexico

Netherl

Norway,

Paraguay,

Peru,

Portugal

Spain,

Sweden

Switzerland

United

Uruguay (Dunedin).

William John Prowse
and mountainous on the Cameroons frontier, where heights above 6,000 feet are to be found.

(4) A plateau occupying the greater portion of Nigeria north of the Rivers Niger and Benue. East of longitude 7° the southern limits of this plateau are determined by a zone of hills which succeeds the undulating grass country to the south. The features of the plateau are generally similar, and although many rivers take their rise in this tableland, it is broken to no great extent by their valleys, except in the cases of those of the Rivers Niger and Benue on the south and west. In elevation it does not exceed an altitude of much over 2,000 feet except in the mountainous parts of Bauchi, where heights of 6,000 feet and more occur, and in the south-west of Yola, a part of the Cameroon mountain system. The surface is generally undulating, marked here and there by hills of granite and sandstone, which rise abruptly from the surrounding land. The country is clothed to a large extent with thin forests which become more and more scanty as the Western Sudan is entered and the arid "steppes" of the Sahara Desert are approached.

Climate.

West Africa formerly had the reputation of being so unhealthy that almost certain death would be the fate of the white man who endeavoured to make it his permanent home. And in this general condemnation Nigeria has been included. Though it cannot be claimed, even at the present day, that the country is a healthy one for the European except to a moderate extent on the plateau, the conditions of living have been so greatly improved during recent years that the possibilities of good health during temporary residence have been enormously increased. Medical and sanitary efforts have effected much in this way, especially by anti-malaria precautions, the use of quinine, and, around Lagos, by the reclamation of considerable areas of swamp lands by the Government at great expense. In spite, however, of this undoubted improvement in the conditions of life, it cannot be said that Nigeria is a land which can be colonised in the proper sense of the term by Europeans.

The "dry season," characterised by the "Harmattan," a dry north-easterly wind accompanied by a thick haze composed chiefly of dust, and the "rainy season" are the predominating features in the climate of Nigeria. The former begins in the north in October, extending its influence gradually southward until it is perceptible at Lagos early in November. There it appears intermittently up to the beginning of March, but in the north the dust and haze are more continuous and last until April. During this period the maximum diurnal variations of temperature occur, the minimum thermometer at Nafada (Lat. 11° 6' N.; Long. 11° 20' E.) during the year 1914 recorded a reading of 48° while during the day readings of 110° are not uncommon. The wind blows generally from the north-east, and both diurnal variation and humidity vary with the severity of the Harmattan. Even in Lagos, where hourly observations are taken, during December and January the humidity has been known to fall to 28 per cent. This season is ushered in and out by short periods of tornados and the rainy season fills the remainder of the year. A prevailing south-west wind supplies on the coast a copious precipitation which decreases rapidly as it travels inland. At Brass, on the coast, the rainfall recorded in 1917 was 178.97 inches; at Kaduna, in the middle of the country, 52.04 inches; while the lowest was 18.18 inches at Katagum.

History.

As far back as the 17th century British traders have had mercantile depots on the mouths of the Niger and adjacent rivers and creeks, known as the Oil rivers, and in those early times the trade was mainly confined to the traffic in slaves. At this epoch the French attempted a settlement at the mouth of the Niger, but were unsuccessful, and during the 18th century British interests predominated.

At the beginning of the 19th century the exploration of the upper river, which had hitherto been supposed to be identical with the Nile or Congo, began, and Mungo Park traced its course from Bamako to Bussa, where he lost his life in the rapids. Lander in 1839 demonstrated the identity of Mungo Park's river at Bussa with the lower Niger, and followed its course to the sea.

In the next two decades, 1840-60, efforts were made, both by the British Government and private individuals, as well as by French and German merchants, to develop the trade of the Niger, while our knowledge of the interior was greatly enlarged by the travels of Barth, Clapperton, Allen and others, all British or under British initiation. A consulate was founded at Lokoja, and, at the cost of much money and many lives, some progress seemed to have been made, only to result in failure and fiasco. The pioneer of these efforts was McGregor Laird, who in 1852 began to establish stations and to endeavour to secure the country for England, but the stations were destroyed by natives, or removed after Laird's death in 1861. The good results of his work were not, however, entirely lost.

The situation in the early seventies was that there were numerous trading firms—English, French, and German—on the Oil rivers, where the trade in palm oil had begun to assume importance, the imports being chiefly confined to spirits, guns and powder. The expeditions sent by the British Government to the higher river, and the subsidies voted by Parliament, had been withdrawn, and European intercourse with the Niger would have ceased had it not been for the perseverance of a few British firms, who during the four months of high water each sent a trading steamer up the river, and soon established a few primitive stations, where the white population of Nigeria lived. These bold pioneers were at the mercy of powerful chiefs, and gross outrages were from time to time avenged by the despatch of a light draught gunboat.

At the close of 1877, Mr. Goldie-Taubman—now Sir G. Taubman Goldie—visited the Niger and recognised that amalgamation of interests and a settled government must replace the chaotic rivalry of traders. With this object in view he determined to secure a charter for a British Company. After much negotiation the small British interests, which were the only ones existent on the Niger at that date, were amalgamated in the United African Company in 1879, and in 1881 a charter was applied for. The objection was raised that the capital of the Company was too small, and hence the National African Company was formed with a capital of a million sterling, with the object of opening up direct relations with the great chiefs of the interior.
With great energy the new company founded stations, sent out a river flotilla, and pushed up the Niger and Benue, but meanwhile the foresight of Gambetta had prompted the establishment of two French Companies, which, being backed by the French Government, acquired a great influence on the lower Niger. Of these the Compagnie du Senegal had a capital of 600,000£., and some thirty French stations were formed, and while the French flag remained the charter could not, of course, be granted. The energy of Sir George Goldie, however, secured the disappearance of the French flag just in time to announce at the Berlin Conference in 1885 that the British flag alone flew on the Niger, and to secure to Great Britain the guardianship of the international navigation rights on the Niger while the French companies and rival British interests which had meantime grown up were absorbed in the National African Company.

In April, 1885, a new danger arose from the mission of Herr Flegel to secure treaties with Sokoto and Gando on behalf of Germany, but he was anticipated by the British Company, who concluded treaties with those powerful emirs. Great Britain was, therefore, able to conclude the Agreement of 1886 with Germany, which settled the frontiers between Nigeria and the Kameruns as far north as Yola, and in July, 1886, the long-delayed charter was granted, and the Company changed its title to that of the Royal Niger Company. Meanwhile, the territories adjacent to the river had been placed under British protection.

The first decade was spent in founding a number of commercial and quasi-administrative stations on the Niger and Benue Rivers, and in making treaties with the native tribes, and consolidating the commercial organisation on which the Company was dependent for its revenue. The expeditions of Monteil to Lake Chad from the west, of Crampnel from the south-east, and of Mizon by way of the Niger and Benue, were checkmated, and finally, in 1890, an agreement was arrived at with France by which the line dividing the French Sudan on the north from Nigeria was drawn with certain deflections from Say, on the Niger, to Barua, on Lake Chad, and in 1893 the Kamerun boundary was extended from Yola to the south of the same lake.

In 1897 the growing hostility of the great Fulah Power culminated in a plan to drive the white men out of the country. The Company were not unprepared, and they took the field with some 500 or 600 soldiers, led by about 30 British officers, against many thousands of the enemy, of whom a large proportion were mounted. Nupe, a dependency of Sokoto, which had thus challenged the Company's existence, was divided by the Niger into two nearly equal portions. The southern portion was first conquered, and then northern Nupe after a two days' fight before the capital at Bida. Ilorin, a smaller dependency, was next subdued. Prior to this southern Nupe had been partially cleared of the Fulah slave raiders, and on the 20th June, 1897, the legal status of slavery in the Niger Territories was declared abolished by the Company.

Simultaneously with this crisis another, which was to have far-reaching effects, arose. The only indeterminate frontier remaining was that to the west. The Company perceiving, in 1894, that French enterprise contemplated the annexation to Senegal and Dahomey of the Borgu country, sent out Captain Lugard (now Sir F. D. Lugard) to negotiate treaties with the king or chiefs of that country. Anticipating the powerful French expeditions by only a few days, he succeeded in making treaties at the capital of Nikki, and with other semi-independent chiefs of districts. Disregarding these prior British treaties, a swarm of French expeditions spread over Borgu, and having obtained a pledge from our Government that Sir George Goldie's powerful expedition, then in the field against the Fulani, should not advance north of latitude 9°, they invaded Bussa, with which we had a specific treaty of many years' standing, and established themselves on the Niger at several points.

At the end of 1897, in view of this situation, the British Government decided to raise an Imperial local force, and the task was confided to Colonel Lugard, who left England in March, 1898. After a period of great tension, during which the British and French troops faced each other, and a conflict was daily imminent, a convention was signed laying down a boundary line from the intersection of the 9th parallel with the frontier of Dahomey to Illo on the Niger, and thence to the northern frontier, which was more accurately defined, to Lake Chad, and to its junction with the German Kameruna frontier. Meanwhile, the Emir installed at Bido by the Company was ousted, and the Nupes were again in arms, while the army of Rabeh, which had penetrated from the Nile Valley to Lake Chad, conquered and laid waste the territory of Bornu, but eventually returned to the south of Lake Chad.

The Imperial force, called the West African Frontier Force, with a "Commissioner and Commandant" at its head, and independent of the Company, was rapidly being formed, with its headquarters at Jebba, and with numerous detachments holding the posts evacuated by the French throughout Borgu, and a strong garrison at Lokoja.

The Imperial Government having decided that the charter of the Royal Niger Company should be revoked, and that its administrative rights and powers should be transferred to the Crown, steps to this end were taken at the end of 1898, when the convention with the French Government had been signed. The actual transfer of the Company's rights and possessions to the Crown took place on the 1st of January, 1900, when the territories north of a line extending, with deflections, from approximately latitude 9° on the Dahomey frontier to Idah on the River Niger, thence to Takum on the Cameroon border, were formed into the Protectorate of Northern Nigeria under Col. Lugard as High Commissioner.

During the first years of the protectorate of Northern Nigeria, the Government was engaged in bringing under control powerful Emirates of the Hausa States and the Kanuri Kingdom of Bornu. These Emirs, who maintained large standing armies, a large proportion of which was mounted, annually took the field and devastated vast tracts of country in slave-raiding expeditions. Despite the treaty with Sokoto, under which the Royal Niger Company paid him an annual subsidy, the Fulani Emirates now defied the Government. The Emirs of Nupe and KonTagora were brought under control in 1901; Yola, Bauchi and Bornu in 1902; and the work of pacification was practically completed in 1903 with the taking of Kano and Sokoto, and the action at Birni. Since that date the Hausa
States have maintained a record of peaceful progress, with the exception of a rising by a so-called "Mahdi" in 1906 at Satiru in the Sokoto Province, which was, however, quickly suppressed with the loyal assistance of the Emir of Sokoto. The minor Emirate of Hadejia in the extreme north, which had not previously been brought under control, assumed an aggressive attitude in 1906 which, however, was suppressed. It was necessary also to send minor expeditions against various unruly and truculent pagan tribes, of which the more important were the Munshis on both banks of the Benue, the Okpotos in the Bassa Province, and various hill-tribes in the Bauchi and Nassarawa Provinces.

In addition to the pacification of these vast areas—hitherto largely unexplored—the early years of the Protectorate were devoted to creating a Civil Government in all its departments, and to the housing of the civil and military officials, and the erection of public offices; the building of the first light railway from Barijuko (on the navigable Kaduna) to Zungeru (22 miles), to which place the seat of Government was transferred in 1902 from the temporary capital at Jebba; and the opening up of communications both by land and by the navigable waterways of the Niger, Benue, Kaduna and Gongola Rivers. In 1907 the construction of the main trunk line from the navigable Niger at Baro to Kano (356 miles), the great market of the Hausa States, was commenced and completed, as a pioneer line, in 1912. During the 14 years from the inception of the Government of Northern Nigeria on 1st January, 1900, to its amalgamation with Southern Nigeria on 1st January, 1914, there were constructed in the Protectorate 700 miles of railways and 5,500 river miles of telegraphs, while the Marine Department worked 1,000 miles of river.

In the political and administrative sphere a complete Civil Service was created, which increased from half a dozen officers in 1900 to an establishment of 132 residents and assistants in 1913. The guiding principle of the Administration was indirect rule through the native chiefs, the powers delegated to whom varied with their degree of enlightenment. A form of direct taxation was evolved, based on the elaborate system which obtained in the Hausa States prior to the British occupation, but shorn of its abuses. The collection of these taxes was made through the chiefs, a fixed proportion of them being retained in "Native Treasuries," from which the salaries of the native officials were paid.

As an indication of the progress achieved, the Durbar held at Kano on 1st January, 1913, may be instanced, when practically all the chiefs of the Protectorate—from the great Mohammedan Emirs to the petty chiefs of pagan hill tribes—assembled with such retinues as they were allowed to bring, estimated at 20,000 horsemen and 40,000 foot.

The Oil Rivers Protectorate.—When, in 1885, the British Government at the conference of the European Powers, held at Berlin, was able to obtain acknowledgment of the fact that a British protectorate had been virtually established over the Niger districts, an Order-in-Council defining them was made, and the portion lying on the coast was designated the Oil Rivers Protectorate, and placed under Consular rule.

In 1891 the rule of the Consul over the Oil Rivers Protectorate was exchanged for that of a Commissioner and Consul-General, stationed at Old Calabar (now Calabar), while Deputy Commissioners and Vice-Consuls were appointed to the Rivers Benin, Bonny, Brass and Forcados, and to the districts of Sapele and Warri.

By an Order-in-Council of 1893 the Oil Rivers Protectorate was extended definitely into the hinterland under the name of the Niger Coast Protectorate, and an administration established under an Imperial Commissioner and Consul-General.

Benin.—In 1894, Nana, a Jekri chief, who had established himself on the Brohimi Creek a few miles from the entrance to the Benin River, caused the Government considerable trouble. He was nominally a vassal of the King of Benin, but by trade, enterprise and robbery he had acquired wealth, and became virtual ruler of a considerable area of country in lower Benin. Nana habitually raided and dealt in slaves, frequently seized produce without payment, openly defied Consular authority, and finally endeavoured to stop all trading on the river. After a blockade and severe fighting, in which Her Majesty's ships took part, Nana escaped overland to Lagos, where he surrendered to the British authorities. He was afterwards tried at Old Calabar, and sentenced to be deported to the Gold Coast. Great benefits accrued to the trade of the district by the removal of this turbulent chief, for merchants were thus enabled to deal direct with producers, who in turn received a fairer price for their produce. Nana was repatriated in 1906.

In 1892 Captain Callway (now Sir H. L. Galway) concluded a treaty with the king of Benin. As time passed, however, it became evident that this potentate had no intention of adhering to its provisions and that the fate of his vassal, Chief Nana, had failed to impress him.

At this period Benin held enormous power over the surrounding territory, and it was said that her influence extended even so far as Sierra Leone on one side and the Congo River on the other. The terrible nature of the fetish rites and the wholesale human sacrifices which took place in Benin City urgently demanded European intervention and the introduction of civilised rule.

Early in 1897 a peaceful mission, organised by the Acting Consul-General to establish friendly relations with Overami, the king of Benin, and to induce him to carry out the terms of the treaty of 1892, was treacherously attacked, and with the exception of two, all the European members of the party were massacred. A powerful expedition was sent against Benin, and in a short time the capital had been captured, but the king made good his escape. The state in which Benin City was found passes all description. In every direction human remains, pits filled with bodies in various stages of decomposition, and altars dripping with fresh human blood were to be seen.

Overami eventually surrendered and was sent into exile at Calabar, where he died in the early part of 1914. In 1899 there was a second expedition into the Benin country, which resulted in the capture and execution of Ologboshere, the leader of the attack on the mission.

The Protectorate of Southern Nigeria, 1900-1906.—When in 1900 the charter of the Royal Niger Company was revoked by the Crown that portion of its territories lying between Idah and the coast was added to the Niger Coast Protectorate. At the same time by an Order-in-Council the Niger Coast Protectorate was constituted the Protectorate of Southern Nigeria, the
administration being transferred from the Foreign Office to the Colonial Office, and placed under Sir R. Moor as High Commissioner. In 1901 the Niger Coast Protectorate troops were organised into a regiment of the West African Frontier Force, and remodelled on the lines of the original corps of that name raised in the Niger Company's territories by Col. F. D. Lugard in 1898.

Towards the close of 1901 preparations for the Aro Expedition were commenced. These operations were directed against the southern Ibo people in general and the Aro, or Inokun tribe in particular. The Aros, who may be described as the dominant section of the great Ibo family, held paramount power over a large extent of country lying between the Niger and Cross Rivers. They had established a powerful fetish, probably derived from Benin, known as the Long Juju which exercised an extremely evil influence on the ignorant and superstitious natives for miles around. After five months of arduous work, the Field Force accomplished the subjugation and disarmament of the Aro tribe, the destruction of the Long Juju and the bringing under Government control of that portion of the territories as far north as about the 5th parallel.

Between 1905 and 1909 several expeditions were sent into the hinterland with the object of opening to trade and civilisation previously unexplored tracts of country. The principal operations were the Bende-Onitsha Hinterland Expedition, 1905-06, and the Niger-Cross River Expedition, 1908-09. As the troops progressed through the country new administrative districts and stations were formed, broad roads constructed in all directions, and many new markets established.

The eastern frontier from the Cross River rapids to the sea was surveyed by an Anglo-German Commission in 1905-06; and from Cross River rapids to Yola in 1907-09. For some years before these delimitations, there were frequent raids across the border by German native soldiery from the Cameroons, which were invariably accompanied by robbery with violence and seizure; and even after the boundary line had been demarcated this violation of British territory did not cease.

Lagos or Eko.—During the reign of Kosoko, Lagos, or Eko as it is known to the natives, became the chief centre of the slave trade in the Bight of Benin. Akitoye, his cousin, from whom the throne had been usurped, issued a proclamation to the effect that he would make common cause with the British against slavery if he were reinstated. Acting on this statement, the British Government took decisive measures, and in 1851 a party of bluejackets from Her Majesty's warships attacked and reduced the town. Kosoko fled and Akitoye was restored to power. In 1852 Akitoye and his chiefs signed a treaty by the terms of which they agreed to abolish the export of slaves, and to encourage the work of missionaries and the establishment of stations for them. A Consul was appointed to Lagos for the protection of British interests.

About nine months after the signature of this treaty some Portuguese slave traders, who had been expelled, returned to Lagos and renewed their old practices. Akitoye was informed of what was going on, and their attempts were promptly suppressed. In consequence of this, the slave trade party, under the leadership of Kosoko, organised a rebellion which broke out in 1853. Indecisive encounters took place between the two factions, and bluejackets were landed to protect the Consulate. Attempts which were made by the Consul and officers to mediate failed, and finally marines were sent to assist Akitoye, when, after a short fight, Kosoko was defeated and fled. Dosumu, who succeeded his father Akitoye, was unable to adhere to the terms of the treaty, and was induced in 1861 to cede the sovereignty of Lagos and dependent territories to the Crown in consideration of a pension, which he continued to draw until his death in 1885.

The Colony of Lagos.—In 1862 these territories were erected into a Colony, and the following year Kosoko, who in 1854 had been acknowledged king of Lekki and Palma, districts lying to the eastward, ceded these places to the Lagos Government. At the same time Protectorate rights were established over Ado and Oke-Odan on the west. In 1866 the Colony became a portion of the West African Settlements, retaining a separate Legislative Council, but being subject to the Governor-in-Chief at Sierra Leone. In 1874 the Colony, which extended from Badagry on the west to Odi on the east with an indefinite inland boundary, was united to the Gold Coast Colony.

In 1883 Appa, lying on the western border of the Colony, was the next district to be brought under British jurisdiction. In 1884, the British Consul concluded a treaty with the Jekris by which their country as far as Mollume, was placed under British protection, and similar treaties were made with the chiefs of Ogbo and Mahin, small tribal areas situated in the creek region to the eastward. In 1886 the Lagos territories were separated from the Gold Coast and erected into a separate Colony and Protectorate. Between the years 1886 and 1895 Mahin, Ijebu-Ro, Itsebu, and Aiyesan to the east, and Kotonu, Ibegba, Ado and Ilaro to the west were proclaimed part of the Protectorate. An expedition was sent against the Ijebus in 1892, which resulted in the military occupation of their country, and in the opening of a most important trade route to the interior.

From this time onward British influence gradually spread inland towards the Niger, and in 1899 the Protectorate was extended to the confines of Northern Nigeria and to the border of the Niger Coast Protectorate. The country generally prospered, and Lagos became a great trading port with many large mercantile firms, both European and native, established. Great trade routes were opened into the interior, and a railway was constructed from Lagos to Ibadan, passing through a thickly populated and fertile agricultural country.

The Colony and Protectorate of Southern Nigeria, 1906-1913.—In 1906 the Colony of Lagos and its protected territory were amalgamated with the Protectorate of Southern Nigeria under one administration and designated the Colony and Protectorate of Southern Nigeria. For administrative purposes the country was partitioned into three main divisions—the Western Province, which coincided with the former Colony and Protectorate of Lagos; and the Central and Eastern Provinces, which previously formed the Protectorate of Southern Nigeria.

The next few years were spent in building up an extensive system of communications. The railway from Lagos to Ibadan was extended over the Northern Nigeria border to Jebba; thence across the Niger to Zungeru; and finally linked
up with the railway in operation from Haro on the Niger to Kano, the great Mohammedan trade centre of the north; thus there is direct railway connection between Lagos and Kano, a branch line to Haro, and a light railway joining the main line at Zaria with the tin fields of Bauchi. Broad main roads were driven in all directions and telegraph lines constructed between important administrative and trade centres.

In 1901 the great undertaking of making Lagos an open port by the construction of huge moles and by the dredging of the sandbar, which obstructed the entrance to the harbour, was commenced; and by the end of 1913 sufficient progress had been made to permit of large ocean-going steamers entering the harbour and berthing alongside the wharves.

Large areas in the north-eastern portion of the Protectorate, notably the country inhabited by the warlike and hitherto intractable Munshi people, were brought under Government supervision.

**The Amalgamation of Northern and Southern Nigeria, 1914.**—By Order-in-Council dated the 22nd of November, 1913, which came into operation on the 1st January, 1914, the Protectorate of Northern Nigeria and the Colony and Protectorate of Southern Nigeria were formed into the Colony and Protectorate of Nigeria. The Protectorate was divided into two portions, each under the immediate administration of a Lieutenant-Governor. By another Order of the same date the boundaries of the Colony of Nigeria were defined, and by a third Order, which applies to the Colony and to the Protectorate, an advisory and deliberative body to be known as the Nigerian Council was established.

By Letters Patent of the 29th of November, 1913, the office of Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Colony of Nigeria was constituted, and provisions made for an Executive Council and a Legislative Council. The Colony was placed under an Administrator, and the Protectorate, divided into two groups of provinces—Northern and Southern—under two Lieutenant-Governors. Thus the old terms, Northern and Southern Nigeria, disappeared and were replaced by the style of the Colony and Protectorate of Nigeria (see also Constitution).

In 1914 the construction of a new railway, known as the Eastern Railway, was commenced. It will run from the head of the Bonny estuary to Kaduna, where the main line from Lagos to Kano crosses the river of that name, some 50 miles south of Zaria. This railway will pass through some of the richest economic areas in Nigeria. It has been completed as far as the Udi Coalfields.

**Political and Administrative Divisions.**

Nigeria is arranged in three main divisions, the "Colony" and two groups of provinces designated the "Northern Provinces" and the "Southern Provinces," which have areas of 1,400, 255,700, and 78,600 square miles respectively. The Colony comprises the former Colony of Southern Nigeria, while the two groups of provinces are formed from the late Protectorates of Northern and Southern Nigeria.

The Northern Provinces are Bauchi, Bornu, Ilorin, Kano, Kontagora, Munshi, Muri, Nassarawa, Nupe, Sokoto, Yola, and Zaria.

The Southern Provinces are Abeokuta, Benin, Calabar, Oyo, Ogoja, Ondo, Onitsha, Owerri, and Warri.

The Northern Provinces are each partitioned into divisions and districts, and the subdivision of the Southern Provinces in a similar manner is under consideration.

The seat of Government is established at Lagos pending the completion of Kaduna, the Capital which is being built on the main railway line in the Zaria Province. The Administrative Headquarters of the Colony and of the Southern Provinces are at Lagos, while that of the Northern Provinces is at Kaduna.

**Commerce.**

From the following figures it will be seen that very considerable progress has been made in the development of Nigeria during the last twelve years. The set-back in trade owing to this war is believed to be purely temporary. In 1904 the total value of imports and exports (excluding specie) was a little over 5 millions sterling, as compared with over 12 millions in 1914 and over 14 millions in 1917; the purely commercial imports being of the value of over 5½ millions, and the exports of the produce of the Colony and Protectorate nearly 8½ millions (including 1,485,887l. tin).

Imports consist chiefly of the following goods, which are arranged alphabetically, and not in order of value:—Aerated waters, bags and sacks, beads, beef, bicycles, biscuits, chemicals and drugs, cigars and cigarettes, kola-nuts, coopers' stores, cotton and woollen goods, cutlery, earthenware, enamelware, firearms, fish, flour, furniture, galvanized iron, gunpowder, haberdashery, hardware, kerosene, matches, perfumery, rice, rope and twine, salt, silk goods, soap, spirits, stationery, sugar, timber, tobacco, umbrellas, wearing apparel, wines, and a great number of miscellaneous articles. Cotton goods form the principal class in the import table, 2,098,182l. worth being received in 1917.

The principal exports are palm-kernels, palm-oil, tin, hides and skins, ground-nuts, cotton, cocoa, mahogany, rubber, shea products, and maize.

As showing the influence of recent railway extensions in the Northern Provinces, attention may be directed towards the largely increased exports of ground-nuts, hides and skins, and shea products. In 1911, the year before the railway to Kano was opened, the total value of these three products shipped overseas was 89,000l. only, as compared with 737,900l. in 1914, 444,421l. in 1915, and 1,637,483l. in 1917. There is also a large increase in cotton goods carried to Kano.

Tin, as indicated by the export list is already worked to an appreciable extent in the Bauchi Plateau and elsewhere in the Northern Provinces, and deposits of lignite and coal have been discovered within the last few years near Asaba and Udi in the Southern Provinces. A colliery has been opened by Government at the latter place, the coal won being used by Government Departments and sold to the public. The output at end of 1916 was about 300 tons a day, and the total output for 1917 was 83,405 tons.

Amongst minor products exported from the Colony and Protectorate may be mentioned ivory, ebony, copra, coffee, guttapercha, beeswax, silk, gums, benniseed, piassava fibre, copaiba oil, guinea grains, capeioura, ginger and ostrich feathers.

Crops cultivated for home consumption include maize, yams, cassava, sweet potatoes, sugar cane, guinea corn, ground-nuts, rice millet, tobacco, plantains and bananas, beans of various kinds, etc. Wheat is grown to a small extent in some parts of the Northern Provinces.
Large herds of cattle, sheep, and goats are raised in the Northern Provinces, and in the extreme north, ostriches and camels are bred. Horses and donkeys are bred and in common use in the northern part of the Protectorate.

The ports served by ocean steamers are, from west to east, Lagos, Forcados and Burutu, Warri, Sapele, Koko Town, Akassa, Brass, Bonny, Port Harcourt, Degema, Opobo, and Calabar.

Import and export merchants are established at the ports, and also up-country along the main waterways, the Niger, Benue, and Cross Rivers, and at inland railway stations.

The following table gives the value of imports and exports (excluding specie) for the ten years 1908-1917.

| Year | Imports | Total | Export | Total |
|------|---------|-------|--------|-------|
|      |         |       |        |       |
|      |         |       |        |       |
|      |         |       |        |       |

* Not included above:— Specie—Import... £1,724,143 Export... 125,384

Total... £21,489,527

Transit Trade—Import... 227,097 Export... 123,211

Total... £350,306

The Nigerian Tin Fields.

The principal tin fields are situated on the western boundary of the Bauchi Province and in the Provinces of Nassarawa, Zaria, and Kano adjoining that boundary. Tin is also known to exist in the Provinces of Ilorin, Calabar, and Yola, but as yet has not been found in payable quantities.

The tin is in the form of cassiterite, and is mostly found in the detrital deposits resultant on the vast denudation that has taken place all over the known field; it is therefore more readily discovered in the existing river-beds; and shows a tendency to increase in size and richness of deposit nearer their sources.

It is extremely doubtful if the detrital tin was derived from lode formations, there is far more evidence to show that it came from narrow stringers and stockworks, many of which are still to be found in every part of the field; these stringers frequently are formed of nearly pure cassiterite and vary in width from half-an-inch up to three or four inches.

The pagan town of Bukuru may be taken roughly as the centre of the field (about 6,000 feet above sea level), from which three great waterways of the Northern Provinces take their origin. Flowing westwards we have the Ngel River becoming the Kwell, Danchandon, and eventually the Kaduna, flowing north-east the Delimi River that goes to Lake Chad, and flowing east the numerous tributaries of the Gongola which joins the Benue, such as the Shen, Forum, Ropp and Jarawa Rivers.

Tin ore has been worked and smelted by the natives during the last hundred years, the Seriki (Chief) of Liruine-Delma being a grandson of the native who historically first discovered and worked it. There is, however, strong evidence to show that some former race knew of its existence. Beads may be seen that have been found in the deep detrital deposits that could only have been made by man. These beads bear no resemblance to the modern ornaments made by tin workers, nor are such beads worn by any existing race of natives near the fields, also the depth at which they have been found precludes a modern origin.

The ore won by the existing mines during 1913 amounted to 5,530 tons, and in 1917 9,966 tons were exported.

Banking, Currency, Weights and Measures.

Banking facilities are afforded by the Bank of British West Africa Ltd., and the Colonial Bank. The former is established at Lagos, Calabar, Forcados, Warri, Onitsha, Port Harcourt, Abeokuta, Ibadan, Zaria, Kaduna, Jos, Kano, and Lokoja, and there are also a number of agencies. The Colonial Bank is established at Lagos, Port Harcourt, Jos, Ibadan, Onitsha, Zaria, and Kano.

The coins current in Nigeria are:—U.K. gold, silver and bronze coins; West African silver coins value 2s., 1s., 6d. and 3d.; Nigerian nickel-bronze coins value 1d., ½d. and ¼d. (tenthpence).

All coins, which under the Coinage Acts, 1870 and 1891, are legal tender in the United Kingdom, and all subsidiary coins coined in pursuance of the provisions of His Majesty's Order-in-Council dated 28th July, 1906, as amended by Orders-in-Council dated respectively 9th September, 1907, 19th October, 1908, 2nd August, 1910, and 7th May, 1913, are current in all parts of Nigeria. The United Kingdom coins, however, are being
superseded by the West African and Nigerian coins. Gold and silver coins of the United Kingdom and West African silver coins are legal tender to any amount; United Kingdom bronze coins and Nigerian nickel-bronze coins are legal tender to the extent of one shilling.

The new West African silver coins, authorised by the Nigerian Coinage Order, 1913, were introduced in May, 1913. The Nigerian nickel-bronze coins were introduced in 1907, 1908 and 1911. Towards the end of 1915 an Ordinance was passed making the Imperial Treasury Notes of 10s. and 20s. legal tender, and a supply was sent out for temporary purposes. Currency notes of the values of 20s., 10s. and 2s. were introduced in 1916 under the Currency Note Ordinance of that year.

Native currency in the form of cowries, manillas and brass rods are still used as currency in some parts, but further importation is prohibited, and the abolition of native currency is being gradually effected.

The weights and measures in common use are the same as those in Great Britain.

Revenue and Loans.

The total revenue of Nigeria (Northern and Southern) was 3,492,738£. in 1917, as compared with 2£ millions in 1910, 1£ millions in 1907, and 1 million in 1904. The above amounts do not include annual grants at varying rates from the Imperial Government (100,000£. in 1916).

The total loan liability at the end of 1917 was under 8£ millions sterling. These loans have been mainly employed in the construction of railways, whose net earnings now exceed 4 per cent. on the total capital expenditure. Large sums have also been used for the important Harbour Works at Lagos, which have enabled ocean mail-steamers to enter the port.

Chief Towns and Means of Communication.

The principal towns of the Northern Provinces are:—Bauchi, Bida, Ibi, Ilorin, Jemaia, Kano, Kataina, Keffi, Kontagora, Lokoja, Maiduguri, Naraguta, Sokoto, Yola, Zaria, and Zungeru; while those of the Southern Provinces are:—Abeokuta, Benin City, Calabar, Forcados, Ibadan, Ijebu-Ode, Iwo, Lagos (Seat of Government), Ogbomosho, Ogoja, Ondo, Onitsha, Opobo, Oshogbo, Owerrri, Oyo, Port Harcourt and Warri.

Steamships maintain a regular service between Nigeria, Europe, other West African Colonies, etc., and there is cable communication with West and South-West African ports, Europe and South Africa, and thus with all parts of the civilised world.

The Nigerian Government Railway runs from Lagos on the coast through the important towns of Abeokuta, Ibadan, Kaduna and Zaria, to Kano, a distance of 712 miles, thus connecting large and populous commercial centres in the interior with each other and with the sea. There are also two branch lines, one running from Zaria to the tin fields of Bauchi, and the other from Minna (near Zungeru) to Baro, an important station on the River Niger. A railway is now under construction which, when completed, will run from a point on the coast at the head of the Bonny estuary, recently named Port Harcourt, in a northerly direction to form a junction with the main line in the neighbourhood of Kaduna, the site of the proposed new capital of Nigeria. This line will pass through some of the richest economic areas of the country. For the present the southern section only, to the Udi Coalfields, has been constructed. Coal of good quality is being steadily produced here.

A system of inland telegraphs, also owned and operated by Government, connects the majority of the principal towns on the coast and in the interior, and the African Direct Telegraph Company controls a wireless station at Lagos. Government has constructed a very large number of broad main roads, many of which are suitable for motor traffic, between the headquarter stations of the Provinces, and there are, in addition, many minor roads running in all directions. The Rivers Niger and Benue are in themselves great natural highways, and there are numerous other navigable waterways, which form most excellent means of communication and transport.

Religion and Education.

The bulk of the population of the Northern Provinces is Mohammedan, the remainder to a large extent being pagan. In the Southern Provinces, however, the greater proportion of the people are pagan with a number of Mohammedan communities, especially in the western districts. Missionary societies of various denominations have established many stations with churches and schools throughout the country.

Education work for the most part is carried on by the several missionary bodies whose schools outnumber those established and maintained entirely by Government. In the Southern Provinces the latest returns show that there are 53 Government Schools; 82 Assisted Schools in receipt of an annual grant-in-aid from Government awarded in accordance with the regulations of the Education Code; and some 587 Non-Assisted Schools which are in no way controlled by the Department of Education. In addition to the above schools, a high-grade secondary school has been established in Lagos by the Government, and is called the King's College. This school was built and equipped at a cost of nearly 10,000£.

Pupils are prepared for London Matriculation, and a branch for instruction in commercial subjects has been instituted. A new Education Code was introduced in 1916, which will be more suitable to conditions obtaining in this country. Grants are not paid on examination results only, but on the general efficiency of the schools as disclosed by the reports of the Inspectors, account being taken of (1) adequacy and efficiency of staff; (2) tone, discipline, organisation, and moral instruction; (3) results of examinations by Masters and test examinations by Inspectors, and general progress; and (4) buildings, equipment, &c. The Education Boards set up under the Ordinance are in the Northern Provinces confined in their functions to Christian assisted schools.

In the Northern Provinces there are 13 Government Schools, in which elementary and primary instruction are given, and 46 Non-Assisted. The local vernacular language is first employed as the medium for teaching elementary subjects; the course is then repeated in Hausa, and in Hausa only is given primary instruction in all standards except the highest, where the study of English is begun. In addition to the Government Schools there are very many Native Mohammedan Schools in which, however, little is taught except the study of the Koran and of the traditions of Islamic faith. Missionary societies also have opened schools, more especially in the southern pagan parts of the Northern Provinces.
Constitution.

The territorial divisions of Nigeria are the "Colony of Nigeria," the "Northern Provinces" and the "Southern Provinces." The Northern Provinces and the Southern Provinces together form the Protectorate.

The Government of the Colony is provided for by Letters Patent of the 29th November, 1913, and the Royal Instructions relating to the Colony of the same date. The boundaries of the Colony are defined by the Colony of Nigeria Boundaries Order in Council, 1913.

The Letters Patent and the Orders in Council constitute the offices of the Governor and the Lieutenant Governors, and also create a Legislative Council for the Colony and an Executive Council common to both Colony and Protectorate. These instruments are amplified by the Royal Instructions referred to as amended by additional Instructions dated 29th April, 1916. The office of Governor is held by a Governor-General of Nigeria.

The Nigerian Council Order in Council, 1913, constitutes a Nigerian Council, and sets out its procedure and the extent of its authority.

Governors from 1907.

Protectorate of Northern Nigeria.

1907 Sir E. P. C. Girouard.
1908 Sir W. Wallace, K.C.M.G. (acting).
1909 Sir E. P. C. Girouard.
1909 Sir W. Wallace, K.C.M.G. (acting).
1909 Sir H. Hesketh Bell, K.C.M.G.
1911 C. L. Temple, C.M.G. (acting).
1911 Sir H. Hesketh Bell, K.C.M.G.
1912 H. S. Goldsmith, C.M.G. (acting).
1912 C. L. Temple, C.M.G. (acting).
1912 Sir F. D. Lugard, G.C.M.G., C.B., D.S.O.
1913 Sir F. D. Lugard, G.C.M.G., C.B., D.S.O.

Governors and Administrators of the Colony and Protectorate of Southern Nigeria.

1907 Sir Walter Egerton, K.C.M.G.
1907 J. J. Thorburn, C.M.G., Admin.
1907 Sir Walter Egerton, K.C.M.G.
1908 Sir Walter Egerton, K.C.M.G.
1908 J. J. Thorburn, C.M.G., Admin.
1909 J. J. Thorburn, C.M.G., Admin.
1909 Sir Walter Egerton, K.C.M.G.
1910 Sir Walter Egerton, K.C.M.G.
1910 J. J. Thorburn, C.M.G., Admin.
1910 Sir Walter Egerton, K.C.M.G.
1911 A. G. Boyle, C.M.G., Admin.
1911 Sir Walter Egerton, K.C.M.G.
1912 F. S. James, C.M.G., Admin.
1912 Sir F. D. Lugard, G.C.M.G., C.B., D.S.O.

Governor-General.

Colony and Protectorate of Nigeria.

1914 Sir F. D. Lugard, G.C.M.G., C.B., D.S.O.

Executive Council.

Governor-General, Sir Hugh Clifford, K.C.M.G.
Lieutenant-Governor, Southern Provinces, and Administrator of the Colony, A. G. Boyle, C.M.G.
Lieutenant-Governor, Northern Provinces, H. S. Goldsmith, C.M.G.
Attorney-General, E. Greenwood.
Director of Railways and Works, Sir J. Eaglesome, K.C.M.G.
Commandant, Nigeria Regiment, Brig.-General F. H. G. Cunliffe, C.B., C.M.G.

Director of the Medical and Sanitary Service, Dr. T. Hood, C.M.G.
Treasurer, D. S. MacGregor.
Director of Marine, Lieut.-Commander J. Percival, D.S.O., R.N.R.
Comptroller of Customs, T. F. Burrowes, C.B.E.
Central Secretary, D. C. Cameron, C.M.G.
Major H. C. Moorhouse, C.M.G., D.S.O.

Nigerian Council.

Official.

Governor-General.
Members of the Executive Council.
First-class Residents.
Secretary, Southern Provinces.
Secretary, Northern Provinces.

Unofficial.

James R. U. Little, Esq.
John Miller, Esq.
N. D. Maidman, Esq.
S. Waring, Esq.
A. R. Canning, Esq.
G. G. Bruce, Esq.
T. Spearpoint, Esq.
Oladugbolu Onikepe (Alafin of Oyo).
Mohomadu Abbas, Sarkin Kano, C.M.G. (Emir of Kano).
Dore Numa (Chief, Warri and Benin River).
Richard Henshaw (Chief, Calabar).
Kitoyi Ajasa, Esq.
Mohammedu Maiturare, Sarkin Musulmi (Sultan of Sokoto).

Legislative Council (Colony).

Official.

Governor-General, Sir Hugh Clifford, K.C.M.G.
Administrator, A. G. Boyle, C.M.G.
Secretary to the Southern Provinces and Colony, Major H. C. Moorhouse, C.M.G., D.S.O.
Principal Medical Officer, S.P., Major W.H.G.H. Best.
Legal Adviser, J. M. M. Dunlop.
Assistant Treasurer, The senior Assistant Treasurer in the Colony for the time being.
Commissioner of Lands, C. W. Alexander.

Unofficial.

R. McNeill, Esq.
E. O. Moore, Esq.
S. H. Pearse, Esq.
A. M. Harvey, Esq.

Civil Establishment.

Governor-General and Staff.

Governor-General, Sir Hugh Clifford, K.C.M.G., 6,000l., duty, 1,500l.
Private Secretary,
Aide-de-Camp,
Confidential Clerk, W. Nash.

Central Secretariat.

Central Secretary, D. C. Cameron, C.M.G., 800l. to 1,000l. by 25l., duty 160l.
Two First Assistant Secretaries, W. Scott Evans, G. O. Nugent, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty 100l.
Two Second Assistant Secretaries, T. St. C. Harrison, H. B. Butler, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty 80l.
Three Junior Assistant Secretaries, R. de M. Young, E. N. Hopkins, R.N., A. C. Burns, 300l. to 400l. by 15l., Lagos secretariat allowance, 60l.
Confidential Clerk (vacant), 250l. to 400l. by 15l., Lagos secretariat allowance, 60l.
Lieutenant-Governor's Office, Northern Provinces.

Lieutenant-Governor, H. S. Goldsmith, C.M.G., 2,000l., duty, 400l.
Private Secretary.

Lieutenant-Governor's Office, Southern Provinces.

Lieutenant-Governor and Administrator, A. G. Boyle, C.M.G., 2,000l., duty, 600l.
Private Secretary, L. S. Bethell, 300l.

Secretariat, Northern Provinces.

Secretary, G. R. Matthews, 700l. to 900l. by 25l., duty 140l.
First Assistant Secretary, B. Hodges, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty 100l.
Three Second Assistant Secretaries, F. A. Clinch, M. J. D. Beresford, H. M. Irwin, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty 80l.
Four Junior Assistant Secretaries, A. D. Hamlyn, W. H. Sykes, R. L. Payne, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.
Confidential Clerk, E. C. Pickwoad, 250l. to 400l. by 15l.
Examiner, Native Treasury Accounts, F. le C. Belmar, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty 80l.

Secretariat, Southern Provinces and Colony.

Secretary, Major H. C. Moorhouse, C.M.G., D.S.O., 800l. to 1,000l. by 25l., duty 160l.
Two First Assistant Secretaries, E. W. Cooks, Capt. C. T. Lawrence, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty 100l.
Three Second Assistant Secretaries, J. St. V. Hand, H. O. S. Wright, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty 80l.
Five Junior Assistant Secretaries, H. de B. Bewley, G. V. Evans, L. H. Boileau, H. M. Lloyd, E. K. Milbourne, 300l. to 400l. by 15l., Lagos secretariat allowance, 60l.
Confidential Clerk, A. C. E. Darke, 250l. to 400l. by 15l., Lagos secretariat allowance, 60l.

Judicial.

Chief Justice, R. M. Combe, 1,600l., duty 320l.
Four Puise Judges, A. R. Pennington, K.C., A. F. C. Webber, J. E. Green, 1,000l., duty 200l.

Police Magistracy.

Police Magistrate, 1st Grade, J. C. Cotton, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty 100l.
Two Police Magistrates, 2nd Grade, A. D. A. Macgregor, W. C. Huggard, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty 80l.

Station Magistracy.

Station Magistrate, B. D. Byfield, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty 100l.
Four Station Magistrates, H. C. Hall, H. S. Berkeley, W. B. Gray, J. Aitken, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty 80l.

Legal.

Attorney-General, E. Greenwood, 1,400l., duty 280l.
Three Legal Advocates, J. M. M. Dunlop, M. L. Tew, J. C. Craven, 600l. to 700l. by 25l., duty 120l.
Crown Prosecutor, E. G. Smith, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty 100l.

NORTHERN PROVINCES.

Five First Class Residents, Capt. U. F. H. Ruxton, W. F. Gowers, C.M.G., F. B. Gall, E. J. Arnett, H. K. Palmer, 800l. to 1,000l. by 25l., duty, 160l.

Fifteen Second Class Residents, Major H. D. Larymore, C.M.G., Capt. G. Anderson, E. C. Duff, Major W. H. Browne, D.S.O., G. W. Webster, M.B.E., Major J. M. Fremantle, M.B.E., J. C. C. P. Sciortino, C. F. Rowe, E. G. M. Dupigny, K. V. Elphinstone, G. Malcolm, C. O. Migeod, G. N. Vertue, Capt. P. Lonsdale, S. McG. Grier, 600l. to 700l. by 25l., duty 120l.

Sixteen First Class District Officers, D. Cator, F. Dwyer, Capt. C. F. Gordon, Capt. H. D. Foulkes, E. H. B. Laing, Capt. F. F. Byng-Hall, R. McAllister, H. de C. Matthew, H. S. W. Edwardes, M. L. Liddard, A. C. Francis, A. C. G. Hastings, G. S. Browne, Lieut. Capt. H. L. Norton-Trail, F. Sinclair, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty, 100l.

Thirty-Two Second Class District Officers, H. B. Ryan, A. Campbell-Irons, M. P. Porch, G. J. F. Tomlinson, Commander B. E. M. Waters, R.N., T. F. Carlyle, C. Wightwick, L. H. E. Blake, J. H. C. Elder, Capt. G. Specombe, A. H. Groom, Lieut.-Col. S. C. Taylor, Major C. A. Booth, S. H. P. Vereker, H. E. W. Bovill, J. F. J. Fitzpatrick, R. Scott-Chapman, R. S. Smith, R.N., Capt. E. A. Brockenbury, Major F. Edgar, Lieut., Commander J. C. O. Clarke, C. A. Woodhouse, E. St. C. St. Stobart, T. A. G. Budgen, W. D. K. Mair, H. H. Middleton, T. H. Haughton, C. E. Boyd, R.N., A. H. D. Paul, G. L. Monk, Y. Kirkpatrick, H. F. Backwell, H. Morgan Owen, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Sixty-four Assistant District Officers, P. de Putron, J. Finch, R. M. Blackwood, K. Hamilton, W. Morgan, J. B. I. Mackay, Major G. L. Unlaeke, J. C. Walker, H. F. Mathews, J. N. Smith, H. B. James, J. H. M. Molyneux, G. J. Lethem, V. F. Biscoe, H. A. Prankerd, G. McGregor, P. R. Diggle, E. S. Pembleton, G. C. Gerahy, M. C. Greene, C. N. Monsell, C. K. Meek, H. Cadman, Lieut.-Commander D. Greig, R.N., K. L. Hall, C. J. Chatto, E. V. R. Rae, W. C. Moore, J. H. G. Smyth, B. A. Finn, A. J. L. Cary, A. E. Cadell, G. G. Feasey, F. de F. Daniel, A. E. Miller, T. M. Morton, W. O. P. Rosedale, R. S. Davies, L. S. Ward, N. J. Brooke, C. W. Izard, G. C. Whiteley, C. R. Walker, J. R. Paterson, B. R. Lawrence, W. M. Hyme, A. E. Vere-Walwyn, R. F. Ireland, E. G. Bryan, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.

SOUTHERN PROVINCES.

Three First Class Residents, R. A. Roberts, Dr. J. C. Maxwell, C.M.G., J. Watt, 800l. to 1,000l. by 25l., duty, 160l.

Twelve Second Class Residents, W. E. B. Copland-Crawford, 600l. to 800l. by 25l., duty, 120l.; Capt. W. G. Lambrose, H. M. Douglas, R. D. N. Raikes, P. V. Young, Capt. W. A. Ross, Capt. A. W. Butterworth, W. C. Syer, E. D. Simpson, R. Hargrove, J. Davidson, S. W. Sproston, 600l. to 700l. by 25l., duty 120l.

Fifteen First Class District Officers, C. Hornby-Porter, H. F. Duncombe, A. L. C. Laborde, S. W. Sproston, Major H. O. Swanston, R. B. Brooks, T. W. Dann, F. Hives, Capt. A. R. Mytton, H. P. Chamley, Capt. M. H. Corsellis, P. A. Talbot, Major H. R. H. Crawford, G. J. F. Tomlinson, Major H. C. Hall, W. B. Smith, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty, 100l.
Thirty Second Class District Officers, W. W. Stubbs, E. B. Dawson, E. C. Palmer, F. H. Ingles, Capt. H. S. Burrough, E. M. Falk, W. B. Rumann, W. H. Cooke, J. M. Pollan, B. G. Wood, F. L. Tabor, F. B. Adams, N. C. Duncan, F. H. Rosedale, Capt. J. G. Lyons, F. P. Lynch, Capt. R. W. F. Cotgrave, Commr. F. S. Rising, R.N., P. J. Gardiner, F. N. Ashley, H. Lovering, E. W. P. Birch, Capt. E. B. Wanton, W. E. Hunt, T. C. Newton, H. B. Hermon Hodge, H. M. Brice Smith, C. M. Dunn, H. O. Lindsell, P. de Putron, W. Morgan, H. B. Bewlay, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Sixty Assistant District Officers, J. D. Thomson, A. L. Weir, R. H. J. J. Samee, R. W. M. Dundas, H. G. Avoling, G. S. Hughes, J. G. Lawton, O. W. Firth, G. H. Findlay, A. R. Whitman, J. W. C. Rutherfoord, M. Maclaren, L. G. Grant, A. R. W. Livingstone, J. S. Ross, M. D. H. Lyon, M. MacGregor, A. E. F. Murray, H. Webber, H. T. B. Dew, G. E. Murphy, H. M. Ward-Prioe, Capt. P. E. M. Richards, R. H. Lapage, Capt. G. N. Heathcote, R.E., R. L. Archer, J. H. Kirk, H. D. La Mothe, F. S. Purchas, J. K. Dodds, H. N. Nevins, D. S. Cook, J. H. B. de Montmorency, Capt. B. W. Macpherson, H. Maddocks, B. M. Carkeek, K. A. B. Cochran, L. H. Shelton, G. G. Shute, E. J. Price, M. D. M. Jeffreys, M. E. Howard, H. F. M. White, F. Ferguson, W. H. Lloyd, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.

Audit.

Auditor, C. A. Pickwoad, 700l. to 900l. by 25l., duty 140l.

Four Senior Assistant Auditors, K. J. Douglas, H. St. J. Sheppard, M.B.E., A. W. Brown, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Seventeen Assistant Auditors, J. D M. Bourne, S. W. Dunn, H. Gush, F. G. Langley, H. C. G. Bridger, C. E. de B. Biden, M. J. Flanagan, H. H. S. Cheeseman, M. H. Matthews, A. A. Allen, H. W. Drake, E. A. Stoodley, A. Bragg, A. G. Still, F. W. P. Kingdom, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.

Printing.

Government Printer, W. H. de Boltz, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Two Senior Assistant Printers, J. Williams, 300l. to 350l. by 10l.

Three Assistant Printers, J. A. Blair, E. J. Taylor, 250l. to 300l. by 10l.

Proof Reader, 250l. to 300l. by 10l.

Treasury.

Treasurer, D. S. MacGregor, 1,000l. to 1,200l. by 50l., duty 200l.

Two Assistant Treasurers, J. H. D. Brett, W. M. Steele, 600l. to 700l. by 25l., duty 120l.

Two Treasury Assistants, 1st Grade, J. A. P. Lambert, T. B. Phillips, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty 100l.

Four Treasury Assistants, 2nd Grade, C. W. Leese, J. F. Blakely, G. F. Price, E. Cross, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Sixteen Treasury Assistants, 3rd Grade, A. H. Hodges, P. C. Thompson, H. P. Fyfe, R. W. Nixon, J. N. Hill, S. McCullagh, C. R. E. Munro, G. W. Gibb, A. W. Nolan, B. M. Drayton, A. L. Darrell, W. S. Phillips, A. M. Bury, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.

Customs.

Comptroller, T. F. Burrowes, C.B.E., 900l. to 1,100l. by 25l., duty, 180l.

Two Collectors, 1st Grade, S. C. O. Pontifex, W. K. Duncombe, 800l. to 700l. by 25l., duty, 120l.

Three Collectors, 2nd Grade, G. E. H. Migeod, J. D. Milne-Stewart, 500l. to 700l. by 20l.; C. H. Chambers, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty, 100l.

Seven Supervisors, 1st Grade, N. V. Solomon, C. J. E. P. Austin, G. R. Wingate, G. C. May, J. Cowper, E. R. Vassall-Adams, J. D. B. Sealy, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Sixteen Supervisors, 2nd Grade, K. S. Martin, J. E. Messer, W. F. O'Toole, R. B. Emery, W. Moyes, E. N. Howlett, J. L. Thorburn, N. H. Cox, E. C. B. Bonyun, C. D. Blayney, F. A. Makin, C. F. C. Everett, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.

Three Wharfingers, A. M. Jarvis, 250l. to 300l. by 10l.

Marine.

Director, Lieut.-Commr. J. Percival, D.S.O., R.N.R., 1,000l. to 1,200l. by 50l., duty, 200l.

Assistant Director, Commr. A. B. Crosse, R.D., R.N.R., 700l. to 800l. by 25l., duty, 140l.

Superintendent Engineer, G. Lumley, 600l. to 800l. by 25l., duty, 120l.

Four Senior Marine Officers, 1st grade, Lieut.-Commr. C. Elliott, R.N.R., Lieut.-Commr. C. H. E. Crosthwait, R.N.R., 600l. to 700l. by 20l., duty, 120l.; Commr. H. C. V. B. Cheetham, D.S.O., R.N.R., Commr. R. H. W. Hughes, D.S.O., R.D., R.N.R., 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty, 100l.

Two Senior Engineers, M. Fitzpatrick, M.B.E., J. F. Alder, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty, 100l.

Four Senior Marine Officers, 2nd grade, Lieut.-Commr. J. D. Wilson, R.N.R., Lieut.-Commr. A. Greenstock, R.N.R., Lieut. A. R. P. Martin, R.N.R., 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Three Engineers, A. E. Furlong, J. H. Walton, L. J. Govier, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Senior Pilot, I. L. Hughes, 400l. to 500l. by 20l.

Two Junior Pilots, H. G. M. Cheetham, Sub-Lieut. M. M. Kennelly, R.N.R., 300l. to 350l. by 10l.

Designer and Builder (vacant), 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Nineteen Marine Officers, Lieut.-Commr. J. Burn, R.N.R., Lieut.-Commr. J. H. Fairweather, R.N.R., Lieut.-Commr. L. J. Hall, R.N.R., Lieut.-Commr. A. W. Hunt, R.N.R., Lieut.-Commr. A. S. Woodward, R.N.R., Lieut.-Commr. A. W. Hughes, R.N.R., Lieut.-Commr. A. Purdon, R.N.R., Lieut. Commr. R. H. Rojas, R.N.R., Commr. H. A. Edwards, R.N.R., Lieut. E. P. Nosworthy, R.N.R., Lieut. W. F. Pearce, R.N.R., Lieut. E. M. Hawkins, R.N.R., Lieut. C. J. Webb, R.N.R., 300l. to 400l. by 15l.

Twelve Assistant Engineers, W. J. Lapper, T. B. Dawson, J. Sullivan, J. Foggett, E. D. Walker, L. J. Lee, J. H. Inglis, J. G. Trehearn, G. A. Smeaton, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.

Chief Accountant, J. Alexander, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty 100l.

Accountant, E. N. Follwell, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.
Four Assistant Accountants, 1st grade, J. A. Brownell, C. S. Honey, A. F. Seymour, J. J. Pringle, 350l. to 400l. by 10l.
Two Assistant Accountants, 2nd grade, H. J. Morley, 300l. to 350l. by 10l.
Chief Storekeeper, W. C. Fairhurst, 350l. to 400l. by 10l.
Navigating Masters, T. Evans, V. Downthwaite, A. J. Wright, B. A. Barker, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.

Police, Northern Province.
Inspector-General of Police, Capt. A. E. Johnson, D.S.O., 600l. to 700l. by 25l., duty, 120l.
Two Commissioners, 1st Grade, Capt. F. S. Merrick, Capt. A. G. Uniacke, D.S.O., 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty, 100l.
Five Commissioners, 2nd Grade, Capt. F. A. E. Godwin, J. Chartres, Capt. G. H. Burnside, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.
Twelve Assistant Commissioners, Maj. R. F. Ellis, E. W. Dix, J. Radolfi, Capt. W. I. Walton, L. W. la Chard, T. Stone, A. K. Rickards, G. H. Farrell, S. H. Grantham, F. B. Smith, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.

Police, Southern Provinces.
Inspector-General of Police, C. W. Duncan, 700l. to 900l. by 25l., duty 140l.
Two Commissioners, 1st Grade, T. F. R. Parry, Capt. C. W. Moore, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty, 100l.
Five Commissioners, 2nd Grade, R. G. Brecken, H. L. Rawles, Capt. G. H. Walker, D.S.O., K. M. Leslie, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.
Thirteen Assistant Commissioners, Capt. O. A. Johnston, F. W. Garvey, J. Owens, R. C. Cavendish, Capt. R. D. Nunn, J. F. Sloley, Capt. H. W. R. Armstrong, G. B. Jennings, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.
Three Superintendents, R. Roddick, T. M. Jukes, 250l. to 300l. by 10l.

Forestry, Central.
Director, H. N. Thompson, 1,000l. to 1,200l. by 50l., duty 200l.
Senior Conservator, 600l. to 800l. by 25l., duty, 120l.
(Working Plans Division).

Forestry, Northern Provinces.
Senior Conservator, E. W. Foster, 600l. to 800l. by 25l., duty, 120l.
Two Conservators, 2nd Grade, B. E. B. Shaw, E. C. V. Gilman, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.
Four Assistant Conservators, H. V. Lely, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.
Four Foresters, 250l. to 300l. by 10l.

Forestry, Southern Provinces.
Senior Conservator, 700l. to 900l. by 25l., duty, 140l.
Two Conservators, 1st Grade, P. Hitchens, J. H. J. Farquhar, 500l. to 700l. by 25l., duty, 100l.
Four Conservators, 2nd Grade, L. A. King-Church, C. F. Vetch, H. J. Sankey, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty 80l.
Eight Assistant Conservators, J. Bunny, S. Lauchlan, R. D. Robertson, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.
Nine Foresters, H. Cook, J. Fidler, H. J. Stadel, W. S. Nichol, 250l. to 300l. by 10l.

Prisons, Northern Provinces.
Director, Capt. A. E. Johnson, D.S.O.
Senior Superintendent of Prisons, P. Merron, 300l. to 350l. by 10l., duty 36l.
Two Superintendents, Capt. W. E. Beamish, J. F. Cahill, F. W. Galton, 250l. to 300l. by 10l.

Prisons, Southern Provinces.
Director,
Deputy Director of Prisons, E. Jackson, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty, 100l.
Senior Superintendent, W. Reeder, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.
Five Superintendents, T. J. McFadyen, A. H. Cole, C. C. Cobley, 250l. to 300l. by 10l.

Agriculture, Northern Provinces.
Director, P. H. Lamb, 600l. to 800l., by 25l. duty, 120l.
Six Assistant Superintendents, K. T. Rae, T. Thornton, R. Nicol, L. A. Wainwright, T. Laycock, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.
Chief Veterinary Officer, F. R. Brandt, 600l. to 700l. by 25l., duty, 120l.
Two Veterinary Officers, G. E. Owen (one vacancy), 400l. to 500l. by 30l., duty, 80l.

Agriculture, Southern Provinces.
Director, W. H. Johnson, 600l. to 800l. by 25l., duty 120l.
Assistant Director, A. H. Kirby, 500l., duty 100l.
Entomologist, A. W. Jobbins-Pomeroy, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.
Mycologist, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty 48l.
Two Superintendents, F. J. Evans, A. J. Findlay, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty 80l.
Four Assistant Superintendents, H. G. Burr, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.
Two Curators, A. R. Bell, C. Warren, 250l. to 300l. by 10l.

Medical.
Director of the Central Medical and Sanitary Services, T. Hood, 1,400l., duty, 280l.
Confidential and Statistical Clerk (vacant), 250l. to 300l. by 10l.
Inspector of Medical Stores, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.

Northern Provinces.
Principal Medical Officer, J. A. Pickels, 1,100l., duty, 220l.
Deputy Principal Medical Officer, E. A. Chartres, 900l. to 1,000l. by 25l., duty, 190l.
Two Provincial Medical Officers, W. H. A. Gordon-Hall, C. E. S. Watson, 800l. to 900l. by 25l., duty, 160l.
Four Senior Medical Officers, G. R. Twomey, H. G. McKinney, J. Currie, H. R. Ellis, 600l. to 750l. by 25l., duty, 120l.
Forty-one Medical Officers, B. Moiser, C. W. McLay, J. M. W. Pollard, W. A. Trumper, E. J. Porteous, J. Lindsay, H. C. Jeffreys, G. Rollason, A. J. M. Crichton, L. W. Davies, B. J. Courtney, B. A. Percival, J. W. Thomson, R. Willan, W. G. Cobb, W. B. Johnson, R. H. Nolan, P. W. Black, 500l. to 600l. by 25l., duty, 100l.; N. A. D. Sharp, J. C. C. Hogan, J. M. Benson, C. J. H. Pearson, B. W. F. Wood, H. North, W. E. S. Digby, J. T. Watt, J. R. C. Stephens, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.
Nigeria.

Nursing Staff.

Two Senior Nursing Sisters, E. F. Dunne, G. Coupe, 200l. to 250l. by 10l., duty, 40l.

Twelve Nursing Sisters, E. Parker, M. Munro, M. E. Tate, E. B. Mellis, M. J. Rhind, D. C. A. Rolfs, J. Harley, L. Mernagh, 100l. to 150l. by 10l.

Southern Provinces.

Principal Medical Officer, Major W. H. G. H. Best, 1,200l., duty, 240l.

Two Deputy Principal Medical Officers, H. B. S. Montgomery, J. A. Clough, 900l. to 1,000l. by 25l., duty, 180l.

Two Provincial Medical Officers, W. I. Taylor, J. W. Collett, 800l. to 900l. by 25l., duty, 160l.

Seven Senior Medical Officers, W. F. Macfarlane, T. B. Adam, J. B. Bate, G. Hungerford, E. H. Tipper, G. B. Norman, J. C. M. Bailey, 600l. to 750l. by 25l., duty, 120l.

Fifty-seven Medical Officers, D. A. Ashton, J. C. Franklin, F. B. Thompson, J. S. Smith, J. J. Moore, E. E. Maples, E. J. Tyran, 600l. to 750l. by 25l., duty, 100l.; A. H. Wilson, T. M. R. Leonard, T. L. Craig, J. H. McKay, H. R. Morehead, A. E. Neale, G. Wilson, S. L. G. D. Maclaine, T. H. Suffern, E. M. Franklin, W. S. Clark, T. Hood-Rankin, C. W. O'Keeffe, W. H. Sieger, W. H. Peacock, R. C. Macpherson, G. F. Forde, G. H. Gallagher, W. A. Nicholson, F. Ross, C. G. Grey, J. P. B. Snell, L. H. Booth, E. L. Sieger, A. F. Kennedy, R. H. Brierley, E. C. Braithwaite, H. R. M. Ferguson, W. T. Martyn Clark, E. J. J. Quirk, C. Kelsall, Capt. E. L. Anderson, T. R. Sandeman, W. R. Parkinson, 500l. to 600l. by 25l., duty, 100l.; F. M. P. Rice, K. K. Grieve, D. T. Birt, W. E. Glover, H. H. Stewart, J. W. B. Hanington, W. H. Kauntze, A. R. Paterson, E. Gibson, C. J. B. Pasley, C. Mackey, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Five Native Medical Officers, O. O. Sapara, W. A. Cole, K. Federin, I. L. Oluwole, I. G. Cummings, two at 300l. to 400l. by 10l., and two at 300l. to 350l. by 10l., house allowance, 40l.

Hospital Dispenser and Storekeeper, Miss C. E. Rennie, 120l., and 5s. per diem subsistence allowance.

Nursing Staff.

Five Senior Nursing Sisters, M. Graham, J. McCotter, E. K. Neville, R.R.C., L. Single, J. Y. Matthews, E. M. Phillips, 200l. to 250l. by 10l., duty, 40l.

Thirteen Nursing Sisters, L. Blaber, E. M. Keillor, E. O'Sullivan, W. B. Allen, M. M. Smith, 100l. to 150l. by 10l.

Sanitary, Northern Provinces.

Senior Sanitary Officer, M. C. Blair, 900l. to 1,000l. by 25l., duty, 180l.

Sanitary Officer, W. J. D. Inness, 700l. to 800l. by 25l., duty, 140l.

Sanitary, Southern Provinces.

Senior Sanitary Officer, H. A. Foy, 900l. to 1,000l. by 25l., duty, 180l.

Three Sanitary Officers, F. J. A. Beringer, J. M. Dalziel, G. J. Pirie, 700l. to 800l. by 25l., duty, 140l.

Medical Research Institute.

Director and Bacteriologist, A. Connal, 600l. to 800l. by 25l., duty, 120l.

Assistant Bacteriologist, H. S. Coghill, 500l. to 600l. by 25l., duty, 100l., staff pay, 100l.

Laboratory.

Government Chemist, W. Ralston, 500l.

Chaplaincy.

Colonial Chaplain, Rev. L. S. Noble, M.A., 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Lands.

Commissioner of Lands, C. W. Alexander, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty, 100l.

Assistant Commissioners of Lands, W. Buchanan Smith, M.C., 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.; F. E. Knapp, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.

Mines, Northern Provinces.

Government Inspector of Mines, E. A. Langslow-Cock, 600l. to 800l. by 25l., duty, 120l.

Two Assistant Inspectors of Mines, 1st Grade, R. G. Williams, A. H. Mottram, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Three Assistant Inspectors of Mines, 2nd Grade, M. Whitworth, A. T. Roberts, W. J. Russell, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.

Mines, Southern Provinces.

Assistant Inspector of Mines, 1st Grade, J. B. S. Henderson, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Education, Northern Provinces.

Director of Education, H. Vischer, 600l. to 800l. by 25l., duty, 120l.

Senior Superintendent, F. M. Urling Smith, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Twenty-one Junior Superintendents, H. H. Annett, H. C. Brooks, C. B. Smith, G. A. J. Bienemann, A. A. M. Isherwood, Rev. G. P. Bargery, M. W. Okes, T. J. Cronshaw, G. O. Pauer, H. H. K. Worley, C. R. Butler, H. W. Cole, Capt. F. W. Taylor, S. W. Walker, C. G. Howard, E. L. Mort, T. S. Phillips, W. E. Nicholson, S. L. Price, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.

Two Technical Instructors, F. A. Bemister, 300l.

Education, Southern Provinces.

Director of Education, H. J. Hyde-Johnson, 600l. to 800l. by 25l., duty, 120l.

Chief Inspector, H. Carr, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty, 100l., rent allowance, 50l.

Three Inspectors, F. H. Harward, C. A. Cummins, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Twelve Superintendents, T. Hyde, H. J. Davidson, W. R. C. Adcock, A. Fleming, T. Harwood, P. F. Herbert, H. B. Gibson, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.

King's College Staff—

Principal, 500l., duty, 100l.

Science and Mathematics Master, J. A. de Gaye, 350l. to 400l. by 15l.

Master, D. L. Kerr, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.

Surveys.

Surveyor-General (vacant), 900l. to 1,000l. by 25l., duty, 180l.

Deputy Director of Surveys, A. Cleminson.
Chief Surveyor, A. S. Collard, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty, 100l.

Lieutenants, 525l.

Surveyors, 1st Grade, R. L. Drouyn, T. J. Waters, C. La T. Franka, Capt. C. G. Evans, R.E., S. Boulderson, Lt. E. N. Thomas, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Surveyors, 2nd Grade, S. R. J. Kingston, R. A. L. P. Hurt, H. J. Woram, H. Morphy, W. K. Robertson, W. F. Mindham, W. E. J. Edwards, C. Simpson, J. H. Cuthbertson, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.

School Instructor (vacant), 300l. to 400l. by 15l.

Draughtsman (vacant), 300l. to 400l. by 15l.

Office Superintendent, P. T. Griffin, 300l. to 350l. by 10l.

Surveyors, 3rd Grade, C. C. Crook, R. R. Rowland, 250l. to 300l. by 10l.

Office of Director of Railways and Works.

Director of Railways and Works, Sir J. Eaglesome, K.C.M.G., 1,500l. to 1,800l. by 50l., duty, 300l.

Public Works: Northern Provinces.

Director of Public Works, A. C. Ridsdale, 800l. to 1,000l. by 25l., duty, 160l.

Executive Engineer, 1st Grade, J. E. Selander, 600l. to 700l. by 25l., duty, 120l.

Two Executive Engineers, 2nd Grade, G. L. Harvey, S. C. Hanson, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty, 100l.

Assistant Engineers, 1st Grade, R. A. Lloyd, H. S. Meilandt, P. A. Anderson, A. Dixon, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Three Assistant Engineers, 2nd Grade, H. M. Peppercorne, D. Elliot, J. Johnson, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.

Accountant, 2nd Grade, J. G. Kirk, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Assistant Accountant, 1st Grade, J. Stewart, 350l. to 400l. by 10l.

Two Assistant Accountants, 2nd Grade, C. W. Dunnill, 300l. to 350l. by 10l.

Two Assistant Accountants, 3rd Grade, R. D. Johnson, B. H. Liddell, 250l. to 300l. by 10l.

Three Inspectors of Works, 1st Grade, J. Dooley, J. Bothwell, S. Rhodes, 300l. to 350l. by 10l.

Southern Provinces.

Director of Public Works, H. F. Peet, 900l. to 1,000l. by 25l., duty, 180l.

Three Executive Engineers, 1st Grade, W. E. May, J. D. Bathgate, E. W. Oborne, 600l. to 700l. by 25l., duty, 120l.

Three Executive Engineers, 2nd Grade, A. J. Goodwin, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty, 100l.

Assistant Engineers, 1st Grade, F. T. Jones, G. A. Broun, H. G. Huggins, W. Wright, A. R. Milliken, E. F. W. Mayhew, F. S. Robinson, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Assistant Engineers, 2nd Grade, E. C. Phillippo, O. de Rosario, E. G. S. Vaughan, A. W. Tyson, W. Blackshaw, E. W. Merrall, E. R. Kendrick, J. McGregor, R. A. Brown, R. A. Webb, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.

Draughtsman, 1st Grade, F. D. Fowler, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Accountant, 1st Grade, F. D. Barker, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty, 100l.

Accountant, 2nd Grade, F. C. Farquhar, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Assistant Accountant, 1st Grade, F. W. Burt, 350l. to 400l. by 10l.

Two Assistant Accountants, 2nd Grade, D. W. Patrick, 300l. to 350l. by 10l.

Three Assistant Accountants, 3rd Grade, R. J. McEvoy, A. H. Morrison, J. O. Gill, 250l. to 300l. by 10l.

Four Inspectors of Works, 1st Grade, H. Harris, L. D. Street, A. Wills, and C. A. Brown, 300l. to 350l. by 10l.

Two Mechanical Engineers, S. Lightband, F. E. Spooner, 300l. to 350l. by 10l.

Electrical Engineer, G. L. Hales, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Two Assistant Electrical Engineers, 1st Grade, T. Davidson, W. K. Duncan, 350l. to 400l. by 10l.

Four Assistant Electrical Engineers, 2nd Grade, A. V. Layton, F. C. Knowles, F. Tyrrell, G. R. Ward, 300l. to 350l. by 10l.

Posts and Telegraphs.

Postmaster-General, J. Somerville, 700l. to 900l. by 25l., duty, 140l.

Assistant Postmaster-General, H. M. Woolley, 600l. to 700l. by 25l., duty, 120l.

Engineer in Chief, P. B. Lawson, 600l. to 800l. by 25l., duty, 120l.

Assistant Engineer in Chief, G. B. Hebden, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty, 100l.

Two Divisional Surveyors, W. T. Storm, G. I. Richton, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty, 100l.

Two Surveyors, W. A. Flacke, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Eight Assistant Surveyors, G. F. Mason, W. J. O'Hara, P. R. Smith, L. A. Harcourt, A. C. Parker, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.

Accountant, 2nd Grade, G. F. Sharp, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Assistant Accountant, 1st Grade, F. J. Hughes, 350l. to 400l. by 10l.

Three Assistant Accountants, 2nd Grade, S. E. Avory, C. P. Gibson, 300l. to 350l. by 10l.

Two Superintending Engineers, H. W. Bennett, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Six Engineers, F. J. Head, C. E. Hare, T. Brandon, C. J. O'Callaghan, 300l. to 400l. by 15l., duty, 60l. to two.

Six Inspectors and Mechanics, 1st Grade, F. Pugh, G. D. Rousseau, R. Heaps, J. F. Dyson, A. E. Blatchford, E. D. Gledall, 300l. to 350l. by 10l.

Colliery.

Manager, M. J. Leck, 700l. to 800l. by 25l., duty, 140l.

Relief Colliery Manager, J. S. Hayes, 650l. to 700l. by 25l., duty, 130l.

Assistant Manager, J. J. H. Humphrey, 500l. to 550l. by 20l., duty, 100l.

Under Managers, J. W. Hillary, H. Halliday, 300l. to 350l. by 10l.

Assistant Accountant, 2nd Grade, H. Mackintosh, 300l. to 350l. by 10l.

Railway.—General.

General Manager, E. M. Bland, 1,300l. to 1,600l. by 50l., duty, 260l.

Assistant to the General Manager, 600l. to 700l. by 25l., duty, 120l.

Office Assistants, 3rd Grade, A. J. Doe, P. H. Edwards, W. B. Fox, 300l. to 350l. by 10l.

Chief Accountant, C. A. Cunningham, 700l. to 900l. by 25l., duty, 140l.
Accountants, 1st Grade, A. G. Hubbard, R. E. Miller, L. E. Lloyd, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty, 100l.

Accountants, 2nd Grade, F. J. Finney, N. A. St. J. Firth, A. Gibbons, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Assistant Accountants, 1st Grade, J. A. Greenway, H. J. Morris, E. J. Carter, W. W. Hedley, C. Taylor, O. Wheeler, H. R. A. Chelu, S. B. Whineray, 350l. to 400l. by 10l.

Assistant Accountants, 2nd Grade, J. Young, W. H. Lloyd, A. Bauch, A. S. MacDermott, D. H. Whitmore, A. L. Angless, H. H. Norman, H. L. Crudgington, A. J. O'Connell, C. B. Mears, F. S. Lees-Spalding, G. H. Culver, 300l. to 350l. by 10l.

Assistant Accountants, 3rd Grade, A. Gordon Grahame, G. J. Pringle, R. V. Whitehead, H. D. Wyllie, W. Nield, 250l. to 300l. by 10l.

Stock Verifiers, S. T. Jeffries, 350l. to 400l. by 10l.

Assistant Stock Verifiers, A. E. Altrop, 300l. to 350l. by 10l.

Chief Storekeeper, A. H. Bridgman, 600l. to 700l. by 25l., duty, 120l.

Storekeepers, J. A. Hawkes, P. F. Gallagher, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Assistant Storekeepers, 1st Grade, A. B. Campbell, R. G. Bland, 350l. to 400l. by 10l.

Assistant Storekeepers, 2nd Grade, H. E. Turner, R. K. Johnson, R. M. Hathaway, A. Wilde, 300l. to 350l. by 10l.

Assistant Storekeepers, 3rd Grade, C. N. Inman, W. H. Avery, S. Fairman, 250l. to 300l. by 10l.

Motor Transport Officer, 1st Grade, F. S. Browning, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty 80l.

Assistant Motor Transport Officer, 2nd Grade, (vacant), 350l. to 400l. by 10l.

Way and Works.

Chief Engineer, F. H. Greenhough, 800l. to 1,000l. by 25l., duty, 160l.

Assistant Chief Engineer, W. C. Bostock, 600l. to 800l. by 25l., duty, 120l.

District Engineers, 1st Grade, R. M. Raven, R. Sutherland, A. E. Sandall, 600l. to 700l. by 25l., duty, 120l.

District Engineers, 2nd Grade, W. W. Bishop, D. Gaskin, A. R. Seymour, G. S. Chisholm, H. W. Lawson, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty, 100l.

Assistant Engineers, 1st Grade, W. Henderson, J. H. Boyd, J. H. Forbes, H. E. Kent, A. Bain, V. St. L. Carter, S. W. F. Kreiser, T. N. Arthur, P. A. T. Wright, W. H. Powell, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty 80l.

Assistant Engineers, 2nd Grade, A. J. Dolman, T. A. Young, W. H. Thatcher, G. A. Buchanan, J. L. Peddie, F. Pike, 350l. to 400l. by 10l.

Assistant Engineers, 3rd Grade, H. J. Heygate, W. R. Milliken, H. Weightman, 300l. to 350l. by 10l.

Chief Foremen of Works, J. Bond, C. W. Brooke, P. J. Coast, G. Mackay, 350l. to 400l. by 10l.

Foremen of Works, 1st Grade, D. Henderson, D. J. Ryder, J. Gibb, W. F. Stevenson, 300l. to 350l. by 10l.

Chief Signal Foreman, F. J. Tresize, 350l. to 400l. by 10l.

Locomotive.

Chief Mechanical Engineer, 800l. to 1,000l. by 25l., duty, 160l.

Assistant Chief Mechanical Engineer, E. Turner Smith, 700l. to 800l. by 25l., duty 140l.

District Locomotive Superintendents, 1st Grade, W. White, T. O. B. Otway-Ruthven, 600l. to 700l. by 25l., duty, 120l.

District Locomotive Superintendents, 2nd Grade, R. B. W. Holmes, C. E. Bressey, J. Willans, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty, 100l.

Assistant Locomotive Superintendents, 1st Grade, L. Nell, D. Drayson, W. Henderson, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Assistant Locomotive Superintendents, 2nd Grade, F. O. Lyon, A. H. Discombe, P. M. Egan, J. D. Weir, 350l. to 400l. by 10l.

Assistant Locomotive Superintendents, 3rd Grade, F. Blackburn, 300l. to 350l. by 10l.

Locomotive Foremen, L. A. P. Collier, A. Evans, H. Freeland, H. H. L. Hamilton, A. Jones, H. E. Jones, F. G. Lowe, F. W. Moorman, G. W. Thompson, H. T. Atkins, C. R. Evans, C. Horton, J. D. Best, D. L. Waddell, 300l. to 350l. by 10l.

Workshop Foremen, C. F. Fennah, A. E. Rayer, J. McLaurin, J. D. Rimmer, 300l. to 350l. by 10l.

Carriage and Wagon Shop Foreman, F. C. Chamberlain, 300l. to 350l. by 10l.

Foreman Boiler Maker, J. W. Booth, 300l. to 350l. by 10l.

Inspecting Driver, W. H. J. Thatcher, 300l. to 350l. by 10l.

Traffic.

Traffic Manager, M. Y. Grant, 800l. to 1,000l. by 25l., duty, 160l.

District Traffic Superintendent, 1st Grade, E. H. Biffen, 600l. to 700l. by 25l., duty, 120l.

District Traffic Superintendents, 2nd Grade, H. B. Haddon-Smith, P. H. Phillips, T. E. Kewley, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty 100l.

Assistant Traffic Superintendents, 1st Grade, A. E. Ivatt, F. O. Willits, H. D. Gibson, J. A. Oldfield, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Assistant Traffic Superintendents, 2nd Grade, E. Sayer, J. Powter, 350l. to 400l. by 10l.

Assistant Traffic Superintendents, 3rd Grade, H. Creighton, W. G. Dawson, J. W. Fenwick, C. H. Graham, G. S. C. Howard, F. A. Sheriff, W. J. Curran, S. W. Shinn, M. C. Wright, E. A. Ashton, R. A. Morris, 300l. to 350l. by 10l.

Traffic Inspectors, J. R. Spitzer, W. J. Y. Stevens, G. Alderson, 300l. to 350l. by 10l.

District Station Masters, C. D. Richards, J. T. Evans, G. A. C. Lasbury, J. Moore, G. B. Bail, J. J. Walker, H. C. S. O'Dell, J. J. Laing, H. W. Croden, A. H. Wood, 300l. to 350l. by 10l.

Warehouse Supervisor, P. J. McKenna, 300l. to 350l. by 10l.

NIGERIA REGIMENT.

WEST AFRICAN FRONTIER FORCE.

HEADQUARTERS STAFF (Kaduna).

Commandant, Brigadier-General F. H. G. Cunliffe, C.B., O.M.G.

Assistant Commandant, Lieut.-Col. F. Jenkins (acting).

General Staff Officer, 3rd Grade, Capt. J. Dare, M.C. (acting).

Staff Captain.

Staff Quarter-Master, Lieut. G. Beeton.

Lieutenant-Colonels, R. G. Coles, C. C. West.
