MALAYSIA

In May, 1961, the Prime Minister of the Federation of Malaya, Tunku Abdul Rahman, raised the possibility of an association between the Federation, Singapore, North Borneo, Sarawak and Brunei. The British Prime Minister, Mr. Macmillan, invited the Tunku to London for discussions with the object of reaching an understanding on the broad issues and to prepare the way for consultation with North Borneo and Sarawak, without which no commitments about their joining could be entered into by the British Government. The discussions were held on the 20th to 22nd November, 1961, and a joint statement by the British and Malayan Governments was issued immediately afterwards. This inter alia announced (1) the view of both Governments that the inclusion of North Borneo and Sarawak (with the other territories) in the proposed federation was a desirable aim in the interests of the peoples of the territories, and (2) the decision to set up a commission to ascertain the views of the people of North Borneo and Sarawak and in the light of its assessment to make recommendations. The joint statement also announced that the views of the Sultan of Brunei were being sought.

The Commission was appointed in January, 1962, and comprised a Chairman (Lord Cobbold), two members nominated by the British Government and two members nominated by the Malayan Government. The Commission visited North Borneo and Sarawak in February, 1962, and submitted its report (Cmnd. 1794) to the two Governments in June. The two Governments after considering the report conferred in London in July. In a joint public statement on the 1st August it was announced that they had decided in principle that, subject to the necessary legislation, the proposed federation should be brought into being by the 31st August, 1963.

The two Governments proposed to conclude a formal agreement which, among other things, would provide for:

(a) the transfer of sovereignty over North Borneo, Sarawak and Singapore by the 31st August, 1963;

(b) provisions governing the relationship between Singapore and the new federation, as agreed between the Governments of Malaya and Singapore;

(c) defence arrangements as set out in the joint statement by the British and Malayan Governments dated the 22nd November, 1961, Cmnd. 1563;

(d) detailed constitutional arrangements, including safeguards for the special interests of North Borneo and Sarawak, to be drawn up after consultation with the legislatures of the two territories. (These safeguards would cover such matters as religious freedom, education, representation in the Federal Parliament, the position of the indigenous races, control of immigration, citizenship and the State constitutions.)

An Inter-Governmental Committee under the Chairmanship of Lord Lansdowne was established in Jesselton, North Borneo, on which the British, Malayan, North Borneo and Sarawak Governments were represented, to work out the future constitutional arrangements and the form of the necessary safeguards referred to at (d) above.

The British and Malayan Governments informed the Sultan of Brunei of the agreement they had reached and made it clear that they would welcome the inclusion of the State of Brunei in the new federation. The Brunei Legislative Council accepted Malaysia in principle subject to the negotiation of satisfactory terms of merger.

The unanimous Report of the Inter-Governmental Committee was published in February, 1963 (Cmnd. 1584), and the Committee's recommendations were accepted by all the Governments concerned.

Following meetings in London of representatives of the Governments concerned an agreement was signed on the 9th July, 1963, to form a Federation to be called Malaysia on the 31st August, 1963, comprising the States of the Federation of Malaya, the State of Singapore and the Colonies of North Borneo (to be known as Sabah) and Sarawak. The Sultan of Brunei decided that Brunei would not join Malaysia for the present.

The Malaysia Agreement was published as a Command Paper on the 11th July, 1963, (Cmnd. 2094). Under the Agreement, the Federation of Malaya undertook to secure in the Malayan Parliament the enactment of a measure to amend the Malayan Constitution to provide for the admission of the new States. Similarly, the British Government undertook to submit Orders in Council before Malaysia Day to give the force of law to the Constitutions of Sabah, Sarawak and Singapore. Britain also undertook to secure the enactment of legislation providing for the relinquishment of sovereignty over North Borneo, Sarawak and Singapore on Malaysia Day. These measures were duly taken. However, as a result of an Agreement between the Heads of the Governments of Malaya, the Philippines and Indonesia at a meeting in Manila at the beginning of August, the Secretary General of the United Nations, with the co-operation of the British, North Borneo and Sarawak Governments, sent a team of representatives to North Borneo and Sarawak later that month to report whether the people truly wished to enter Malaysia. In consequence it was announced on the 28th August that the Governments of Britain, Malaya, North Borneo and Sarawak had agreed that Malaysia Day would be postponed from the 31st August to the 16th September, 1963. The Secretary-General's report, confirming the wish of the majority of the people of North Borneo and Sarawak to enter Malaysia, was published on the 14th September and Malaysia was duly formed on the 16th September.

The Secretary of State for Commonwealth Relations is the channel of communication between the British Government and the Government of Malaysia.
