THE WEST INDIES (FEDERATION)

The Federating Territories

The Federation of The West Indies which came into being in January 1958 comprises the Territories of Barbados; Jamaica (including the Cayman Islands and the Turks and Caicos Islands); the Leeward Islands of Antigua, Montserrat, and St. Christopher, Nevis and Anguilla; Trinidad and Tobago; and the Windward Islands of Grenada, Dominica, St. Lucia and St. Vincent. It does not include British Guiana, British Honduras or the Virgin Islands (Leeward Islands).

Geography and Area

The ten colonies comprising The West Indies, each consisting of one or more islands, are situated in, or on the borders of, the Caribbean Sea. Jamaica, the largest, is part of the Greater Antilles group; the remainder belong to the chain of the Lesser Antilles. The total land area of the federating territories is 8,028-8 square miles.

Population

In 1960 the estimated total population of the Federation was 3,115,000. This figure was based on the preliminary results of the population census, April 1960.

Capital

Trinidad is the seat of the Federal Capital. At present the Federal Government is in temporary quarters in Port-of-Spain. Permanent quarters will be built when the site of the capital in Trinidad has been decided upon.

Climate

See relevant section under unit territories.

History

The move towards political federation has developed over a long period of years, and has been hastened by, among other things, the rapid improvement in air communications since the end of the second world war, and the institution of joint regional organizations by the British West Indian Governments. A despatch sent to West Indian Governments in March 1945, by the late Colonel Oliver Stanley, then Secretary of State for the Colonies, stressed that "the aim of British policy should be the development of federation in the Caribbean at such time as the balance of opinion in the various Colonies is in favour of a change, and when the development of communications makes it administratively practicable. The ultimate aim of any federation which may be established would be full internal self-government within the British Commonwealth". At Colonel Stanley's suggestion the idea of political federation was debated in the legislatures of all the Colonies of the region except that of the Bahamas, where the decision was taken against doing so, and, in September 1947, a Conference on Closer Association was held at Montego Bay, Jamaica, presided over by Mr. A. Creecch Jones and attended by delegates and legal and financial advisers from Barbados, British Guiana, British Honduras, Jamaica, the Leeward Islands, Trinidad and Tobago, and the Windward Islands. All the delegates, except those from British Guiana, accepted the principle of federation and on their recommendation a Standing Closer Association Committee was set up to work out a draft federal constitution.

That Committee, composed of 17 West Indians selected by their respective legislatures met in 1948 and 1949 and its Report (Col. No. 255, 1950) made recommendations on which the present bi-cameral Federal Legislature and Federal Executive are based. The Report was accepted, with certain reservations, by all the legislatures except those of British Guiana and the British Virgin Islands (Leewards group) which rejected them, and that of British Honduras which considered it premature for that Colony to commit itself to federation.

A further Conference on West Indian Federation held in London in April 1953, attended by West Indian and United Kingdom delegates, and by observers from British Guiana and British Honduras, agreed upon a "Plan for a British Caribbean Federation" (Cmd.8895, 1953) based upon the Standing Closer Association Committee's proposals. By February 1955 this plan had been adopted by all the legislatures that debated it.

The next step was a Conference on Movement of Persons within a British Caribbean Federation held in Trinidad in March 1955, and attended by West Indian and United Kingdom delegates and an observer from British Guiana. This conference recommended that there should be the greatest possible freedom of movement within the Federation, and that the control of movement between Territories should be placed on the concurrent legislative list as a matter on which both the federal legislature and the territorial legislatures should be empowered to legislate, with federal law prevailing. It also recommended that the British Government should be requested to proceed with the greatest possible speed with the completion of the preliminary measures to enable the Federation to be established. Both recommendations were accepted by all the legislatures concerned.

Later in 1955, Commissions headed by Sir Sydney Caine, Sir Hilary Blood and Sir Allan Chalmers Smith were appointed to examine respectively the Fiscal, Civil Service and Judicial aspects of Federation, and their Reports were published in December 1955 (Cmd. 9618, 9619 and 9620).

The final Conference on British Caribbean Federation was held in London in February 1956 and was attended, as before, by delegates from the West Indian and United Kingdom Governments and by observers from British Guiana and British Honduras. At that Conference the decision to "be bound together in federation" was taken, and it was agreed to make provision for British Guiana, British Honduras and the British Virgin Islands to be admitted later if they so wished. The "Plan for a British Caribbean Federation" (see above) was adopted, with certain modifications, as the basis for the Federal Constitution, and a Standing Federation Committee was set up under the chairmanship of Sir Stephen Luke, the Comptroller for Development and Welfare in the West Indies, to consider further the drafting of the constitution and to make the necessary administrative preparations for the establishment of the Federal Government. The composition of the Committee was the same as that of the West Indian delegations to the Conference, i.e., three delegates from Barbados, three from Jamaica, one from each of the participating Leeward Islands, three from Trinidad and Tobago, and one from each of the Windward Islands, together with two observers from British Guiana and one from British Honduras. This Committee met four times during 1956 and 1957, and under its direction a Pre-Federal Organization was set up with headquarters in Barbados and later in Trinidad.
The 1956 London Conference was unable to reach agreement on the location of the Federal Capital, and on their recommendation a Fact-finding Commission was set up, under the chairmanship of Sir Francis Mudie, to visit the West Indies and make recommendations on the three most suitable sites in order of preference, bearing in mind such factors as political and social sentiment, availability of land, cost of buildings, communications and other services. The choice of the Commission (Report; Colonial No. 328, 1956) was Barbados, Jamaica and Trinidad in that order. The Standing Federation Committee, having considered this Report, decided at its meeting in January 1957 that the Capital should be situated in Trinidad.

The British Caribbean Federation Act, which received the Royal Assent on 2nd August 1956, enabled Her Majesty, by Order in Council, to provide for the federation of the colonies concerned and for the establishment of a Federal Government, a Federal Legislature, a Federal Supreme Court and other necessary Federal authorities, to provide that any appellate jurisdiction of the Federal Supreme Court should be in substitution for the jurisdiction of the West Indian Court of Appeal, and to provide for the accession of other colonies to the Federation. The Act also provided for the payment of a grant not exceeding £1,000,000 from Her Majesty's Government towards the cost of establishing the Federal Capital and for the making of further annual grants during the first ten years of federation to enable the Federal Government to assist the Governments of those federating Territories whose resources are insufficient to meet their administrative expenses. Under this Act the West Indies (Federation) Order in Council, 1957, incorporating the Federal Constitution, was made in July of that year.

At a meeting in February 1957 the Standing Federation Committee agreed that the name of the Federation should be "The West Indies". It was announced in May 1957 that Her Majesty had approved the appointment of the Right Honourable Lord Hailes, G.B.E., to be Governor-General and Commander-in-Chief of the Federation. This appointment became effective on the 1st October and Lord Hailes assumed office in Trinidad on the 3rd January 1958.

The first elections were held on 25th March 1958 in all the territories and resulted in the majority party, The West Indies Federal Labour Party, taking office.

The Federal Parliament was inaugurated on 22nd April 1958 by H.R.H. the Princess Margaret.

Constitution

The constitution, the interim provisions of which came into force in January 1958 provides for a bi-cameral Legislature comprising a Senate and a House of Representatives. The Senate is composed of 19 members appointed by the Governor-General on a basis of Territorial representation after consultation with the Governors of the Territories represented. A President and Vice-President are elected by the Senate from among its members. After each successive period of five years all Senators vacate their seats, but their terms of office are not affected by a dissolution of the Federal Legislature. The House of Representatives consists of 45 members elected by adult suffrage in the federating Territories. The House elects a Speaker either from among its members or from among other persons and a Deputy Speaker from among its members. A person appointed to the Senate or elected to the House of Representatives who is already a member of a Territorial Legislature or Executive Council may not take part in the proceedings of the Senate or House of Representatives until he has ceased to be a member of the Territorial Legislature or Executive Council and if he has not ceased to be such a member at the expiration of 21 days he vacates his seat in the Federal Legislature. The Federal Legislature is dissolved by the Governor-General after a period of not more than five years from the date when the House of Representatives first meets after a General Election.

The powers of the Senate to prevent the passage of legislation are restricted in that, in certain circumstances, a Bill may be presented to the Governor-General for assent notwithstanding that the Senate has not consented to the Bill. When a Bill is presented to the Governor-General he may assent to it, refuse to assent or reserve it for Her Majesty's pleasure. The Federal Legislature has power to make laws on any matter included in the Exclusive Legislative List or Concurrent Legislative List scheduled under the Constitution. Territorial Legislatures have power to make laws on any matter included in the Concurrent Legislative List, but in general will not have such power with respect to matters included in the Exclusive Legislative List. In cases of inconsistency between Federal and Territorial laws, Federal law prevails.

The constitution enables Her Majesty to legislate by Order in Council for the Federation for the purposes of defence and external relations.

Originally the Federal Executive consisted of a Governor-General appointed by Her Majesty and a Council of State consisting of a Prime Minister elected by the House of Representatives and ten other Ministers appointed by the Governor-General on the advice of the Prime Minister. However, on the 16th August 1960 the Cabinet system of Government was introduced following the amendment to the Constitution by the Constitution of the West Indies (Amendment) Order in Council, 1960, the relevant provisions of which came into operation on that date. The Cabinet consists of the Prime Minister and such number of other Ministers appointed from the two chambers of the Federal Legislature as the Prime Minister may decide, of whom not less than two shall be members of the Senate, and the new provisions provide that the Governor-General shall appoint as Prime Minister the member of the House of Representatives who, in his judgment, is best able to command the confidence of the majority party in the House. The Governor-General may, in accordance with the advice of the Prime Minister, assign to any Minister responsibility for dealing with any business on behalf of the Federal Government, but is not obliged to do so in respect of defence, the audit of Federal accounts or the appointment, dismissal or disciplinary control of officers in the Federal Public Service.

The general direction and control of the Government is vested in the Cabinet which is collectively responsible to the Federal Legislature, and in the performance of his functions the Governor-General is required to act in accordance with the advice of the Cabinet or a Minister acting under the general authority of the Cabinet where he is authorised to act in his discretion or in accordance with the recommendation or advice of some other person's authority. Where the
Governor-General is authorised to act in his discretion in the performance of any function, he is required to act in accordance with any constitutional conventions applicable to the exercise of any similar function by Her Majesty in the United Kingdom.

The constitution provides for a Federal Supreme Court, consisting of a Chief Justice and three or more Federal Justices appointed by the Governor-General in his discretion after consultation with the Prime Minister, and contains provision regarding the jurisdiction of the Court. The constitution also provides for a Public Service Commission to advise the Governor-General on the appointment, dismissal and disciplinary control of Federal public officers. The Commission consists of a Chairman and between two and four members appointed by the Governor-General in his discretion. When the remaining provisions of the 1960 Order in Council come into operation the Chief Justice will be appointed by the Governor-General after consultation with the Prime Minister, and the other justices by him acting on the recommendation of Judicial Service Commission; and the power to appoint and dismiss public officers, other than overseas officers, and to exercise disciplinary control over them will be vested in the Governor-General acting on the recommendation of the Public Service Commission. In the case of overseas officers the like power will be exercised by the Governor-General after consultation with the Prime Minister. A Public Service Appeals Board will also be established.

The provisions for amendment of the Constitution by Order in Council include provision for amendment for the purpose of including other Colonies within the Federation. There is provision for review of the Constitution not later than the fifth anniversary of the date on which it came into force.

Public Finance

The main source of Federal revenue during the first five years of federation will be an annual levy upon the Territorial Governments the maximum annual amount of which ($9,120,000—equivalent to £1,900,000) is based on an estimate by Sir Sydney Caine, pre-Federal Fiscal Commissioner (Report—Cmd. 9618, 1955) of the yield that might be expected if Federal customs and excise duties were levied on certain commodities at certain rates. During the first five years no Federal income tax (except tax on emoluments paid from Federal funds) may be levied. Under the terms of the Constitution the Federal Legislature may make laws with regard to customs and excise duties but the Federal Government may only retain the revenue from duties levied under any such law on certain scheduled commodities and, during the first five years, at certain scheduled rates. Moreover, during the first five years, Federal revenue obtained from the Territorial levy and from any customs and excise duties on the scheduled commodities may not together exceed the sum of $9,120,000, any excess actually raised having to be returned to the Territorial Governments.

The Federal Government has assumed the responsibilities hitherto undertaken by the Comptroller for Development and Welfare in the West Indies for the administration of grants made under the Colonial Development and Welfare Acts for regional development schemes and for advising the Secretary of State on applications from individual Territories for assistance under the Acts. In addition, since the 1st January 1959, it has assumed responsibility for the administration of grants-in-aid to those territories (at present Antigua, Montserrat, Dominica, Grenada, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Turks and Caicos Islands) whose resources are insufficient to meet the ordinary expenses of administration. This assistance is provided from a block grant of £8,750,000 by Her Majesty's Government for the five-year period 1959-63. Grants for this purpose have hitherto been paid direct by Her Majesty's Government to the Territories concerned.

The Federal Government has also received a grant of $10 million (Can.) from the Canadian Government for economic development purposes as well as technical and other forms of assistance from the United States International Co-operation Administration and the United Nations.

Communications

Civil Aviation—The larger islands of The West Indies are served by a number of international airlines which link the Caribbean with North and South America and Europe. British West Indian Airways maintain regular services linking the territories with each other as well as with New York and Venezuela. The Leeward Islands Air Transport Company, a subsidiary of British West Indian Airways, provides services between the Leeward Islands and the neighbouring territories.

A Commission of Inquiry headed by Sir Frederick Tymms was set up by the Federal Government to make a comprehensive survey of air transport requirements and to make recommendations thereon. At the time of going to press (November 1960) the Commission had submitted its report.

Shipping—The Area is served regularly by several international passenger and cargo ships and by intra-regional vessels of small tonnage.

The Federal Government continues to operate an interim passenger and cargo shipping service within the Federation. The generous gift by the Canadian Government of two new ships for the intra-regional service has enabled the Federal Government to plan the establishment of a permanent service from 1961 when the new ships are expected to be delivered.

The interim shipping service has shown that the pattern of cargo movement in the Area is mostly northwards from Trinidad. In 1959 however there was an increase of 75% over the 1958 figures for southbound cargo. The northbound cargo was about twice as much as the southbound for the year. The number of passengers carried by the service remains fairly constant.

The Canadian firm of Messrs. Milne, Gilmore and German, Naval Architects of Montreal, have been appointed liaison officers to keep the Government of The West Indies fully informed of the progress made in the construction of the Gift Ships in Canada.

Port and Harbour Development—The report of the Canadian survey team which in 1959 carried out a survey of the port and harbour needs of the Federation has been received, and consideration is being given to implementing its recommendations, with financial and technical assistance provided under the Canada West Indies Mutual Aid Agreement.
Regional Lighthouse Scheme—Consideration is still being given to the establishment of a regional lighthouse authority for The West Indies. Following the survey of the area carried out in 1958 by two experts, work has been going on on the examination of the administrative and financial arrangements for its operation as well as on the preparation of draft legislation.

Meteorology—The West Indies Meteorological Service at present embraces all unit territories of The West Indies Federation, and in addition the Bahamas, British Guiana, British Honduras and the British Virgin Islands. There are main meteorological offices at Nassau (Bahamas), Palisadoes Airport (Jamaica) and Piarco Airport (Trinidad).

The Federal Government is undertaking a considerable expansion of the establishment of the service. Its main limitations are financial but training facilities have been established in Trinidad and advanced training undertaken in the United Kingdom with assistance from the United States International Co-operation Administration, and from Development and Welfare funds. Opportunities exist for a limited intake of university graduates with good degrees to be trained to meet the expanding needs of the Area in this field.

Telecommunications—The territories of the Federation are linked by cable, radio telegraph and radio telephone. A three-and-one-half million dollar development programme is being undertaken by Cable and Wireless, Ltd. for immediately upgrading and increasing the capacity of public service communication channels serving the Federation. These will in time require considerable further augmentation if effect is given to the plan recommended by a meeting of experts held in Mexico City in April 1960. By this plan Jamaica would become a centre for a modern submarine repeater cable network in the Western Caribbean; and the islands of the Eastern Caribbean would be on a further international "highway" between North and South America.

A new system of VHF radio links in the Eastern Caribbean was opened by International Aeradio (Caribbean), Ltd. in 1960. This has achieved a considerable upgrading in aeronautical telecommunications.

Trade and Industry

Total domestic exports of the Federation in 1959 amounted to W.I.$726 million and imports to W.I.$883 million. Petroleum and petroleum products from Trinidad and bauxite and alumina from Jamaica account for over half the exports, the respective figures in 1959 being W.I.$364 million, W.I.$53 million and W.I.$45 million. Other exports consist mainly of primary agricultural commodities, including sugar and rum, bananas, citrus, cocoa, coffee, and Sea Island cotton. The principal imports are food, clothing and footwear, mineral fuels, machinery, and transport equipment. Foodstuffs account for between one-fifth and one-third of the total value of imports.

The main trading partners of the Federation are the U.K., Canada and the U.S.A., in descending order of importance. About 35% of all imports come from the U.K. and 37% of all exports go there.

Despite the great importance of petroleum and bauxite, the economy of the Federation is still largely agricultural, and agriculture is the main field of employment in most of the Territories. In addition to growing tropical crops for home consumption and export, emphasis is now being placed on the development of the livestock and fishing industries both in order to provide relatively cheap sources of protein for the local population as well as to reduce the dependence of the Federation upon imported supplies of milk, meat and fish. Efforts are also being made to diversify the economy by developing secondary industries, and all Territories offer a wide range of fiscal and other incentives to attract outside capital to the area. In Barbados, Jamaica and Trinidad there are Industrial Development Corporations to assist and facilitate the would-be industrialist.

The industrialization programme is most advanced in Jamaica and Trinidad. In Jamaica there is the large scale mining of bauxite and production of alumina. Trinidad has large petroleum and asphalt refineries; it is also the home of Angostura Bitters. Both territories have breweries, and factories producing cement, textiles, clothing, cigarettes, matches, plastic products, leather, footwear and other goods for domestic consumption. Other important secondary industries include gypsum products, confectionery, phonograph records, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, soap, cooking fats and pottery. In Jamaica there are factories which cater solely for export, producing such articles as woollen blankets, baseball gloves and sports shirts. In Trinidad a W.I.$19 million fertilizer plant has started production; and throughout the area industrial undertakings of varying sizes are being planned or executed.

Tourism is of great and growing importance and special incentive legislation exists in all the Territories to encourage the building of hotels. There were 400,000 visitors in 1959 and the estimated receipts from tourism for that year were W.I.$65 million.

Assumption by Federal Government of functions of former Regional Organizations

The Regional Economic Committee ceased to exist at the end of 1957, its functions being taken over by the Federal Government. The duties formerly performed by the secretariat of the Regional Economic Committee were distributed between the various Federal Ministries or Departments concerned.

The Regional Council of Ministers, which was set up by the Standing Federation Committee in May 1957 to consider matters in the economic sphere of common interest to the territories of the Federation and to other British Caribbean territories, was reconstituted in January 1959 with an agreed Constitution and Rules of Procedure. It has met once in 1959 and once in 1960.

The Federal Government has now established consultative machinery in the field of Natural Resources and Agriculture. The Regional Natural Resources Council held its Second Meeting in Trinidad on the 7th and 8th March 1960. This Council is presided over by the Federal Minister of Natural Resources and Agriculture and its members consist of Ministers of Agriculture or their equivalent in territorial Governments, British Guiana and British Honduras. The Regional Natural Resources Council is supported by an official Standing Committee on Agriculture, Animal Health and Husbandry, Fisheries and Forestry and a
Regional Research Committee. These Committees in turn have created various subsidiary bodies, e.g. the Veterinary Sub-Committee, the Economics and Marketing Sub-Committee, the Fisheries Research Sub-Committee.

The Development and Welfare Organisation was set up in 1940, as a result of the recommendations of the West India Royal Commission (Cmd. 6607); its primary function was to work out, in collaboration with local governments, long-term programmes of social reform and schemes of development and welfare for which grants from United Kingdom funds under the Colonial Development and Welfare Acts might be recommended. Many of the functions of the Organisation, which ceased to operate on 31st March 1958 have been taken over by the Federal Government, which maintains a full cadre of advisers, whose services are available on request to the governments of the federated territories, and also to non-federated territories in the British Caribbean. These functions include the provision of the chairmanship and secretariat services for the Regional Labour Board, which controls the various government schemes for assisting the employment of West Indian workers in the U.S.A. and supervises the work of the British West Indian Labour Organisation in New York; the chairmanship and secretariat facilities for the Standing Advisory Committee on Medical Research; and the provision of facilities for other standing or ad hoc regional conferences.

CABINET

Sir Grantley Adams, C.M.G., Q.C.—Prime Minister;
C. G. D. La Corbiere—Minister of Trade and Industry;
R. L. Bradshaw—Minister of Finance;
W. Andrew Rose—Minister of Communications and Works;
F. B. Ricketts—Minister of Natural Resources and Agriculture;
Mrs. P. B. S. Allfrey—Minister of Labour and Social Affairs;
N. H. Richards—Minister without portfolio;
V. B. Vaughan—Minister without portfolio;
Senator J. W. Liburd—Minister without portfolio;
Senator J. L. Charles—Minister without portfolio;
Senator S. Byfield—Minister without portfolio.

Secretary—F. A. Phillips.

SENATE

President—A. S. Cato.
Vice-President—J. B. Renwick, C.B.E.,
17 other members.
(Of the total of 19 members, there are 2 for each Territory except Montserrat, which has 1.)
Clerk:—D. F. Mayers.

HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

Speaker—E. R. L. Ward.
Deputy Speaker—L. Radix.
45 elected members (among whom the Speaker may be included and the Deputy Speaker is included).

Antigua . . . . 2
Barbados . . . . 5
Dominica . . . . 2
Grenada . . . . 2
Jamaica . . . . 17
Montserrat . . . . 1 (and one alternate member)
St. Christopher-Nevis-Anguilla . . . . 2
St. Lucia . . . . 2
St. Vincent . . . . 2
Trinidad and Tobago 10

Clerk—G. E. L. Laforest.

CIVIL ESTABLISHMENT

GOVERNOR-GENERAL and COMMANDER-in-CHIEF—The Rt. Hon. Lord Hailes, G.B.E.
Deputy Governor-General—J. S. Mordecai, C.M.G.
Secretary to the Governor-General—M. S. Staveley, M.B.E.
Private Secretary—D. Hamilton.
Aide-de-Camp—Capt. R. Green.

Federal Secretary—(Vacant).
Federal Financial Secretary—(Vacant).
Deputy Federal Financial Secretary—E. C. Waterman.
Defence Officer—D. J. G. Rose, M.B.E.
Permanent Secretary, Prime Minister's Department—F. D. C. Williams, C.M.G.
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs—O. E. Henry.
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Trade and Industry—P. W. C. Burke.
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Natural Resources and Agriculture—C. S. McMorris.
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Communications and Works—G. V. Mancini.
Secretary to the Cabinet—F. A. Phillips.
Federal Accountant-General—J. Bully, M.B.E.
Federal Personnel Officer—J. C. D. Malone.
Federal Establishment Officer—C. Ahwai.

Senior Assistant Secretaries:
Office of the Federal Secretary—D. S. Brookes.
Ministry of Natural Resources and Agriculture—V. C. Josse, M.B.E.
Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs—S. Moosai-Maharaj.
Ministry of Communications and Works—J. F. Horsham.
Prime Minister's Department—C. R. C. Springer.
Ministry of Trade and Industry—E. S. Gittens, O.B.E.
Ministry of Finance—K. G. Augier.
Agricultural Adviser—A. F. MacKenzie.
Banking Adviser—T. H. A. Picking.
Building Development Adviser—J. C. Rose.
Senior Economist—(Vacant).
Education Adviser—R. N. Murray.
Technical Education Expert—(Vacant).
Fisheries Adviser—E. Hess.
Forestry Adviser—A. F. A. Lamb, O.B.E.
Housing Expert—(Vacant).
Federal Information Officer—W. A. Richardson.

Law Officers:
Attorney-General—H. L. Da Costa, Q.C.
Solicitor-General—D. A S. de Freitas.
Legal Draftsmen—F. O. C. Harris; K. C. McMillan.
Marketing Adviser—Major H. C. Biggs.
Medical Adviser—H. P. S. Gillette, O.B.E.
Director, The West Indies Meteorological Service—(Vacant)
Deputy Director, The West Indies Meteorological Service—K. V. W. Nicholls.
Organisation and Methods Adviser—E. H. Hollis.
Postal Services Adviser—E. A. Driver.
Director of Standards—P. A. Aldworth.
Federal Statistician—M. Milliken.
National Income Statistician—C. O'Loughlin.
Vital Statistics Officer—G. W. P. Roberts.
Telecommunications Adviser—C. F. Perryman.

JUDICIARY
Chief Justice—Sir Eric Hallinan.
Federal Justices—Sir Alfred Rennie; C. V. H. Archer; A. M. Lewis; C. Wylie, E.D.; J. F. Marnan, M.B.E.
Registrar, Federal Supreme Court—R. V. McI. Clarke.

Overseas Commissions
Commissioner for The West Indies, British Guiana and British Honduras in the United Kingdom (London)—G. H. Gordon, C.B.E., Q.C.
Commissioner for The West Indies, British Guiana and British Honduras in Canada (Montreal)—C. R. Stollmeyer, C.B.E.
Assistant Secretary (Vice-Consul), Venezuela (Caracas)—S. S. Lutchman.
Liaison Officer, Students Service, U.S.A.—W. A. R. Walker.

Common Institutions and Services shared by the Territories of Antigua, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and The Virgin Islands

Police
These eight territories share a single advisory Police Service Commission which is composed of one member from each territory except, for the present, the Virgin Islands. Each member of the Commission is appointed by the Administrator after consulting his Chief Minister, and the members of the Commission elect their own Chairman. The Commission also has discretion to invite to its meetings persons with knowledge of possible candidates from outside the eight territories. The function of the Commission is to advise the Administrators in exercising their discretionary power to appoint, dismiss, promote and exercise disciplinary control over gazetted ranks in each Police Force.

Judiciary
A Supreme Court and a Court of Appeal for the above eight territories were established by Order in Council in 1939. Fresh provision regarding those Courts was made by an Order in Council of 1959, which also provided for the establishment of a Judicial and Legal Service Commission composed of the Chief Justice of the Joint Supreme Court of the Leeward and Windward Islands, a Federal Justice, a Judge or ex-Judge of a Superior Court of any part of Her Majesty's Dominions, and the Chairmen of two of the advisory Public Service Commissions in the territories concerned.

Judges of the Supreme Court (other than the Chief Justice) are appointed by the Governor-General of The West Indies on the recommendation of the Commission. The Chief Justice is appointed by the Governor-General after consultation with the Federal Chief Justice. Judges are removed from office only if the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council advises removal for inability or misbehaviour. The Judicial and Legal Service Commission advises the Administrators on the appointment, etc. of magistrates, registrars and law officers. The expenses of the Joint Courts (including the emoluments of Judges) and the Commission are borne by the eight territories in proportions specified in the Courts Order in Council of 1959 and the sums required to meet these expenses are charged on the revenue of each territory by the Order in Council.

The Federal Supreme Court constituted by Article 73 of the Constitution of The West Indies also has certain original and appellate jurisdiction in respect of these Territories.

Other Common Institutions
A common audit system prevails in the eight territories. A number of specialist services are shared by various of the territories by administrative arrangement.

Antigua

Area
The area of Antigua is 108 square miles, the Dependency of Barbuda 62 square miles, the Dependency of Redonda (uninhabited) half a square mile. Barbuda lies 25 miles to the north, Redonda 25 miles to the south-west of the main island.

Population
The population at the 1946 census numbered 41,757; preliminary results of the April 1960 census give the population as 54,354.

Principal Town
St. John's, the capital, has a population of about 12,500.

Geographical Features
The western part of the island of Antigua is composed entirely of volcanic rocks (highest point Boggy Peak, 1,330 feet). The eastern and northern parts are of limestone, below 500 feet above sea level, and a central plain stretches diagonally across the island. Barbuda is very flat with a large lagoon on the west side. There are no rivers.

History
The first settlers were a few English who arrived in 1632. In 1663 Charles II made a formal grant to Lord Willoughby, who at once proceeded to send out large numbers of colonists. For a short time the island was in French occupation, but in 1667 it was declared an English possession in terms of the Treaty of Breda and has remained British from that date.

Constitution
Following decisions taken at a Constitutional Conference in London in June 1959, a new constitution came into force on 1st January 1960. The main features are:

(a) The post of Governor is abolished and the Administrator has become Her Majesty's
Representative in the Territory. The Administrator is now appointed by Her Majesty and exercises such of the former powers of the Governor as have been retained under the new constitution (these powers are considerably reduced under the new constitution);

(b) The Executive Council has the general control and direction of the government of the Territory. It is presided over by the Administrator and there are one ex officio member (the principal law officer) and five unofficial members (including the Chief Minister and three other Ministers). Of these the four Ministers are appointed from the elected members of the Legislative Council and the other unofficial member is appointed from either the elected or the Nominated members of the Legislative Council. The Administrator appoints as Chief Minister the member of the Legislative Council who, in his judgment, is most likely to command a majority in the Legislative Council. The other unofficial members are appointed by the Administrator on the advice of the Chief Minister. Ministers are assigned responsibility for any Government business (including financial matters) except criminal proceedings, internal security, the audit of public accounts and the public service;

(c) The Legislative Council is composed of one ex officio member (the principal law officer), two Nominated members appointed by the Administrator in his discretion and ten members elected by universal adult suffrage. It is presided over by a Speaker elected by the Council either from within or without the Council; and having only a casting vote. There is a Deputy Speaker elected from within the Council;

(d) The appointment, dismissal and disciplinary control of public officers is vested in the Administrator in his discretion acting after consultation with an advisory Public Service Commission. The Administrator is also responsible in his discretion for appointing the Head of the joint Police Force of Antigua, Montserrat and the Virgin Islands, and for appointing gazetted ranks of the joint Police Force after consulting the single advisory Police Service Commission which has been established to serve the territories of Antigua, Dominica, Grenada, Montserrat, St. Kitts, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Virgin Islands. Further details about the Police Service Commission and about the Judiciary are given on page 185.

Land Policy

Land may not be alienated or leased to aliens without the consent of the Administrator. Except in a few cases, alien occupation of land is confined to leases for not more than 99 years. There is a small amount of Crown land which, when not used for public purposes, may be leased or sold.

Taxation

The main forms of taxation are income tax, trade tariffs and excise duties. The rates of individual income tax range from 2½ cents to 65 cents per $ of chargeable income. Company tax is 40% of chargeable income.

Provision has been made for double taxation relief with the United Kingdom, Canada, New Zealand, Sweden, Denmark, Norway and the U.S.A., and consideration is being given to extending the arrangements to other countries.

### Public Finance

| Year | Revenue $000 B.W.I. | Expenditure $000 B.W.I. |
|------|---------------------|------------------------|
| 1938 | ..                  | 595                    |
| 1955 | ..                  | 5,697                  |
| 1956 | ..                  | 6,183                  |
| 1957 | ..                  | 7,652                  |
| 1958 | ..                  | 8,788                  |
| 1959 | ..                  | 7,511                  |

In 1959 $4,499,902 of revenue was derived from fees of court, etc. and $1,990,219 from Customs duties.

The main heads of expenditure were: Agriculture $296,637, Health $1,033,746; Public Works Recurrent $714,149; and Education $564,526.

Provision is made for a grant by Her Majesty's Government in aid of the Colony.

### Currency

The currency is issued by the Board of the Commissioners of Currency, British Caribbean Territories (Eastern group) consisting of Barbados, British Guiana, the Leeward Islands, Trinidad and Tobago, and the Windward Islands. Currency notes are of denominations $1, $2, $5, $10, $20 and $100, and coins of 50 cents, 25 cents, 10 cents, 5 cents, 2 cents and 1 cent. The West Indian $ has a fixed equivalent value of 4s. 2d., that is $4·80 to £1 sterling.

### Development Plans

Antigua was originally allocated £499,000 under the Colonial Development and Welfare Act of 1945. There were further allocations of £210,000 between 1952 and 1955, of £680,000 in 1955, and £95,000 in 1958, and of £680,000 in 1959, making £2,164,000 in all. The current development planning period ends in 1964.

### Education

There are 32 Government elementary (primary and post-primary) schools, and eleven recognized private schools, with a total enrolment of 12,566 pupils. The seven secondary schools—four grant-aided, two denominational and one private—have a total enrolment of 1,978 pupils. A Teachers' Training College accommodates 27 resident female teachers and 8 non-resident male teachers. The graduation standard from this college approximates to that of the Teachers' Training Colleges of the larger British Caribbean Colonies. There are 33 students (including 25 student-nurses) studying in the United Kingdom, 3 in Canada, 9 in the United States and 12 at the University College of the West Indies in Jamaica. Government expenditure on education in 1959 was $564,526.

### Libraries

The Public Library in St. John's has a book stock of over 20,000 volumes. Library services have recently been established in the rural areas.

### Health

The expenditure on medical and allied services in 1959 was $1,033,746 compared with $86,318 spent in 1935. In 1959 the Hospital (180 beds) treated 3,425 cases. Apart from the dispensaries maintained at the residences of District Medical Officers, there are three health centres and 14 dispensaries.
Communications

Coolidge Airfield, which was constructed by the American Army Air Force as a military airfield in 1942, is now used by the local Government as a civil airfield. It is used mainly by Pan American Airways, British West Indian Airways, Trans-Canada Airlines and Air France with direct services to other West Indian Islands and to the United States of America. Travel to other parts of the world is made by connexions from Trinidad, Jamaica, and America.

There are 66 miles of main roads and 85 miles of secondary roads.

The Principal Occupations are agricultural. In 1959 about 48% of employed persons were engaged in sugar production.

The Main Crops and Products are sugar and cotton.

| Year | Imports $000 B.W.I. | Domestic Exports $000 B.W.I. | Re-exports $000 B.W.I. |
|------|-------------------|--------------------------|---------------------|
| 1938 | 1,218             | 961                      | 9                   |
| 1955 | 10,341            | 4,921                    | 591                 |
| 1956 | 10,417            | 6,193                    | 86                  |
| 1957 | 11,438            | 6,983                    | 200                 |
| 1958 | 13,437            | 5,701                    | 310                 |
| 1959 | 13,202*           | 4,818                    | 379                 |

* Estimated.

Principal Exports by Quantity and Value

| Item   | 1938 | 1958 | 1959 |
|--------|------|------|------|
| Sugar  | tons |      |      |
|        | 20,844 | 17,086 | 29,319 |
|        | $000 | 829  | 3,148 | 4,127 |
| Cotton | lb.  |      |      |
|        | 174,842 | 1,230,801 | 378,368 |
|        | $000 | 57   | 1,467 | 378   |
| Molasses | gals.(000) | 1,054 | 596 | 1,518 |
|        | $000 | 55   | 60   | 151   |

The chief imports are food, apparel, cotton piece-goods, timber and non-edible oils.

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL

The Administrator.
C. A. Harney (Attorney-General) (Acting).
V. C. Bird, Chief Minister (Minister of Finance and Planning).
L. Hurst (Minister of Trade, Production and Labour).
E. H. Lake (Minister of Social Services).
E. E. Williams (Minister of Public Works and Communications).
McC. B. George (Member without portfolio).

LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL

Speaker—D. W. Hurst.
Attorney-General. (Ag.) Ex officio.
10 Elected Members.
2 Nominated Unofficial Members.
Clerk—F. A. Clarke.

CIVIL ESTABLISHMENT

Administrator—I. G. Turbott.
Financial Secretary—K. E. Bohne.
Chief Accountant—A. A. Caines.
Deputy Chief Accountant—E. G. K. Challenger.
Director of Agriculture—M. Park, O.B.E.
Asst. Peasant Development Officer—R. A. Baynes.
Labour Commissioner—C. A. Rodgers.
Law Officer—C. A. Harney. (Ag.) Attorney-General
Registrar and Provost Marshal—E. L. Creque (Ag.).
Medical Superintendent—C. E. S. Bailey, M.B.E.
Senior Medical Officer—K. H. Uttley.
Surgeon Specialist—N. J. L. Margetson, M.B.E.
Medical Officer, Institutions—H. A. A. Tomlinson.
Postmaster—S. L. Walling.
Keeper of Prisons and Superintendent of Training School—J. O. M. Swift.
Collector of Customs—E. O. A. Pestaina.
Colonial Engineer—(Vacant).
Commissioner of Income Tax—E. G. O'M. Berridge.

Barbados

Area, etc.

Barbados is the most easterly of the Caribbean islands. Its total area is 166 square miles.

Population

The preliminary results of the 1960 census show the population to be 232,085.

Principal Town

Bridgetown, the capital, is the only town. Before the 1960 census its population was estimated at about 19,150.

Geographical Features

The Island is comparatively flat, rising in a series of tablelands marked by well-defined terraces to the highest point (1,104 feet) at Mount Hillaby. The north-east corner of the Island, the Scotland area, is broken country, much eroded and rather barren. The formation of the rest of the Island is coral limestone. There are no rivers, but deep gullies which fill with water during heavy rain have cut their way through the coral terraces in many places. Indigenous forest covers about 46 acres.

Climate

The climate is extremely pleasant. North-easterly trade winds blow steadily from December to June but during the remainder of the year, the wet season, the wind moves to the south-east and is less strong, resulting in humid, hotter conditions. The average temperature is 79·8°. The rainfall is very varied; in the high central district the yearly average is 75 inches while in some of the low-lying coastal areas the average is 50 inches.

History

Uncertainty remains on some points in the early history of Barbados and differing versions have appeared from time to time. The brief account which follows is based on what is taken to be the most authentic version.

As far as is known the original inhabitants were the Arawak Indians who migrated from the mainland of South America. When they arrived is not known, but relics of their occupation down to the latter years of the sixteenth century have been discovered in various parts of the Island. By the time the English settlers came they had disappeared, partly through Carib raids from
the neighbouring islands, and partly through the Spaniards who deported them to work in the mines of Hispaniola.

In spite of the belief to the contrary, there is no satisfactory evidence that the Olive Branch under Captain Catlin ever touched at Barbados when it was driven off its course from England to the River Wiapoco settlement in 1605 and fetched up at St. Lucia. The first Englishman to visit Barbados may have been Captain Simon Gordan, who claimed that he had landed some time before the settlement of 1627 and had found the Island uninhabited. He may, however, have been on a ship under the command of Sir Thomas Warner that visited sometime between 1620 and 1624 and found the Island suffering from such a severe drought that the latter preferred settlement of his colonists at St. Kitts. In 1624 or early 1625 a ship, belonging to Sir William Courteen and under the command of Captain John Powell, touched at Barbados, when en route from Pernambuco to England; some men were landed who erected a cross and on a tree nearby inscribed "James K. of E. and of this Island". On receiving Powell's information about Barbados Sir William Courteen fitted out an expedition to the Island under the command of his informant; but Powell, who carried letters of marque, captured a Spanish or Portuguese prize and returned with it to Cowes in 1626. Courteen then fitted out a second expedition and in February, 1627, the William and John under the command of Captain Henry Powell—Captain John Powell's younger brother—landed 80 settlers. During 1627 and 1628 the colony grew rapidly and by the end of 1628 it was claimed that Courteen had planted 1,850 settlers. The Earl of Carlisle obtained a grant from Charles I for all the Caribbean islands and landed settlers in 1628. After his death his son leased the Island in 1647 for 21 years to Lord Willoughby of Parham who assumed the government of the Island and during the Civil War held it for the Royalists until his capitulation to the Cromwellian fleet in 1652. A Governor was appointed by the Commonwealth in place of Lord Willoughby and at the Restoration the claims of the Carlisle Patent were revived. An agreement was reached by which the Patent was surrendered to the Crown for compensation in the form of 4½% duty on exports. This duty was a continual source of complaint but was not abolished until 1838 by Act of Imperial Parliament. The importance of the agreement, however, is that it marked the end of proprietary rule. Since its settlement Barbados has been a possession of Great Britain.

**Constitution**

Barbados has one of the oldest Constitutions in the Commonwealth and one in which conventions play an important part.

The Legislature consists of the Governor; an Upper House—the Legislative Council—consisting of members (usually about 15) appointed by Her Majesty; and a Lower House—the House of Assembly—consisting of 24 members elected by universal adult suffrage. Members of the Legislative Council may be appointed for periods of up to 15 years but are normally appointed for five years at a time. The life of a House of Assembly is limited to five years. The Governor may exercise a veto on legislation but has no positive reserved legislative powers.

The three main executive organs are the Executive Council, consisting of the Governor, the Chief Secretary and Attorney General, and other members appointed by Her Majesty (at present three); the Executive Committee, consisting of the Executive Council with the addition of members appointed from the Legislative Council (at present one) and the House of Assembly (at present five); and the Cabinet, consisting of the Premier and those members of the Executive Committee who are not members of the Executive Council, i.e. the members appointed from the two Houses of the Legislature. Of these three bodies the Executive Council, the original executive organ, now survives for a limited number of largely formal functions only and, since the establishment of the Cabinet at the beginning of 1958, the role of the Executive Committee too has been very much reduced, although it is open to either the Governor or the Premier to request a meeting of the full Committee.

The Governor appoints as Premier the person who appears best able to command a majority in the House of Assembly. By convention he is then appointed a member of the Executive Council (and so automatically of the Executive Committee) for as long as he holds office. On the Premier's advice the Governor also appoints other Ministers, who become the members of the Executive Committee appointed from the House of Assembly, and a Minister without Portfolio, who becomes the member of the Executive Committee appointed from the Legislative Council.

Some changes in the Constitution which will provide for full internal self-government are expected to take place during 1961.

**Land Policy**

The systems of land tenure are similar to those of the United Kingdom.

**Taxation**

Income tax is the main form of direct taxation. The tax rates range from 3 cents on every complete $ of taxable income up to $500, to 75 cents on every complete $ of taxable income beyond $24,000. Tax is not paid on incomes below $800 per annum in the case of single individuals and $1,400 in the case of married persons. A wife's earned income allowance not exceeding $300 is granted. Deductions from taxable income of $270 to $600, varying according to the age of the child, are allowed for children and $240 for other dependants, in the latter case not exceeding two. Deductions are also permitted on life insurances. Medical expenses may be deducted in excess of $20 but not exceeding in the aggregate $100, in the case of a taxpayer of married status, or $50 in the case of any other person, plus $25 for each child, not exceeding two. Companies pay a flat rate of 40%. The rate for life assurance companies and building societies is the average paid by an individual with a taxable income of $4,800.

A non-cumulative system of Pay As You Earn is in operation.

Estate duties range from 1% on estates exceeding $4,800 and not exceeding $14,400 to 30% on estates over $1,920,000. In addition, succession duty ranges from ½% between $96 and $2,400 to 2% of values exceeding $9,600 where the successor is a lineal descendant or ancestor and from 2% to 10% where the successor is a stranger.

Entertainment tax is charged on certain forms of entertainment.

The other main forms of taxation are the Customs tariffs and excise duty on rum production.
Public Finance

| Year     | Revenue   | Expenditure |
|----------|-----------|-------------|
| 1938-39  | $2,535,734| $2,622,115  |
| 1945-55  | $16,272,735| $12,668,070 |
| 1955-56  | $17,281,545| $14,128,972 |
| 1956-57  | $19,124,815| $16,216,542 |
| 1957-58  | $20,684,883| $19,270,986 |
| 1958-59  | $23,761,801| $20,723,432 |
| 1959-60  | $23,157,771| $22,253,481 |

In 1959-60, $10,798,902 was derived from Customs and Excise and $9,104,100 from direct Taxation.

The main heads of expenditure for the same year were as follows:

- Social Services (education, health and old age pensions) $6,961,690
- Public Works (including roads and water) $3,089,032
- Subventions and Miscellaneous Services $2,141,696
- Police and Prisons $1,454,837
- Agriculture $801,914
- Subsidies and Controls $235,571

Expenditure on Capital Account amounting to $10,646,906 was met from loan funds, surplus balances, and Colonial Development and Welfare grants.

The Public Debt at the 1st April 1960 was $25,215,628. Towards this an amount of $2,838,192 was provided by sinking funds.

At 1st April 1960 the amount of free surplus balances was $5,794,764.

Currency

The currency in circulation is a West Indian currency issued by the Board of Commissioners of Currency, British Caribbean Territories (Eastern group) consisting of Barbados, British Guiana, the Leeward Islands, Trinidad and Tobago, and the Windward Islands. Currency notes are of denominations $1, $2, $5, $10, $20 and $100. British coin is legal tender but the chief medium of circulation is the new British Caribbean coin in denominations of 50 cents, 25 cents, 10 cents, 5 cents, 2 cents, 1 cent and a ½ cent. The West Indian $ is fixed at 4s. 2d., that is $4·80 to £1 sterling.

Development Plans

Actual capital expenditure incurred by the Development Plan 1955-60, which ended 31st March 1960 was $40·9 million—$8·9 short of planned expenditure.

The Deep Water Harbour, estimated to cost $25 million overshadowed all other projects involving $15·9 million or about 39 per cent. of total expenditure. By the end of the plan 90 acres of land had been recovered, excavation of the foundation of the 2,700 foot breakwater and depositing of the rubble base completed and approximately 11·5 thousand square yards of bottoming for roads and other surfaced areas laid.

Steel work for two of the three transit sheds with planned floor space of 102,600 square feet has been erected, the walls of the sugar store constructed and foundations for the conveyors laid according to plan. The store has a capacity of 80,000 tons of raw sugar with storage and discharge rates of 150 and 500 tons per hour respectively. The store is planned to be completed in January and the Harbour proper by March 1961.

The Housing programme realized the construction of approximately 1,270 permanent houses and new construction alone cost $3·4 million and loans to sugar and general workers $2·9 million. Together with other expenditure the cost of the housing programme was $9 million.

$4·9 million were spent on communications and road transport; roads accounting for $1·4 million, airport facilities $1·7 million and road transport for $750,000.

The Development Board commenced operations in 1957 and by the end of the Plan had advanced $1 million to 21 small firms and more than $½ million to 11 hotels in an effort to encourage the development of secondary industry and tourism in the island. Major items in the $1·8 million agricultural programme have been $½ million in a major soil conservation project in the Scotland District; $½ million on loans to fishermen to mechanize the fishing fleet and $3 million on the construction of markets.

A Development Plan 1960-65 is under preparation.

Education

Educational policy aims at the integration of the primary and secondary systems of education and the eventual introduction of compulsory education for children between the ages of 5 and 14 years.

Education at the primary stage is provided in primary schools, in the preparatory departments of Government-aided secondary schools and in independent schools. Secondary education is provided in the senior departments of the primary schools, in secondary modern schools, Government-aided secondary grammar schools and some independent schools. No fees are charged in the primary and secondary modern schools. Tuition fees in secondary grammar schools range from $15 to $85 per annum.

There are 116 primary schools, and 5 secondary modern schools, which are entirely maintained by Government funds. At the close of the school year 1959-60 the number of registered pupils was 41,019 (20,902 boys, 20,117 girls). There are 10 government-aided secondary grammar schools (3 first grade and 7 second grade) with an attendance of 3,975 pupils (2,503 boys, 1,472 girls). Erdiston Training College now provides a two-year residential course for 98 students including 28 from the Windward and Leeward Islands. Under the Barbados Five-Year Training Scheme and the Caribbean Vocational Training Scheme scholarships are awarded annually to teachers in both Primary and Government-aided Secondary Schools for study in the United Kingdom as well as Caribbean Institutions.

During the academic year there were 41 Government Scholars and Exhibitioners attending Universities overseas: 16 in the United Kingdom, 2 in Canada and 23 at the University College of the West Indies. In addition 67 students were advanced loans from the Higher Education Loan Fund; 15 were attending Universities in the United Kingdom, 35 at the University College of the West Indies and 17 at foreign Universities in the United States, Canada, France, and India.
Adult education is provided by the Barbados Evening Institute in Academic and Commercial courses and at the Housecraft Centre in Home Economics. Technical education is now provided at the Technical Institute established in 1955. It offers courses at three levels, viz. for craftsmen, for technicians, and for those desirous of proceeding to advanced technological studies. The Apprenticeship Board has taken over the functions of the Board of Industrial Training; 48 bursaries are awarded annually for training in various trades under apprenticeship schemes with master workmen.

Expenditure on education services in 1959–60 was $3,378,759, compared with $269,342 in 1935–36.

Libraries and Museums

A free Public Library (73,197 books) is maintained by Government. The Barbados Museum and Historical Society possesses collections of books, pictures, models, specimens of birds and fishes, and a collection of relics of the original Arawak inhabitants of the island.

Health

The Barbados General Hospital has accommodation for 46 paying patients and 403 non-paying patients. In-patient attendances numbered 12,027, out-patient attendances 152,557 in 1959. The Government maintains a mental hospital with accommodation for 325 males and 477 females and a leper hospital at which there are 15 patients. For the training of midwives the Government Maternity Hospital has accommodation for 20 expectant mothers. A new general hospital is under construction. Each of the 11 parishes has an almshouse for the care of the destitute sick and for the housing of the aged and poor. These almshouses provide medical care and in some parishes function as district hospitals.

Preventive medicine is based on the Health Centre System. Three Centres are operating, in St. Michael, St. Peter and St. Philip.

Estimated expenditure on Health Services amounted to $2,521,319 in 1959–60 compared with $206,870 in 1935–36.

Communications

An International Airport is situated at Seawell, 12 miles from Bridgetown. Air France, British Overseas Airways Corporation, British West Indian Airways, Linea Aeropostal Venezolana, Pan American World Airways, and Trans-Canada Air Lines operate frequent scheduled services connecting Barbados with the major world air routes.

There are 688 miles of road open to traffic most of which has a bituminous surface.

Bridgetown is the only port of entry, although some loading of sugar takes place at Speightstown and oil is pumped ashore at Spring Gardens and an Esso installation on the West Coast.

The main shipping companies visiting Barbados are Harrison Line, Elder and Fyffes Line, Royal Netherlands Steamship Company, Compagnie Générale Transatlantique, Saguenay Shipping Ltd., Booth Line, Lamport and Holt Line, Alcoa Steamship Company, M.A.N.Z. Line, Moore McCormack Line, Nourse Line, Caribbean-Hamburg Line (formerly Three Bays Line) and Federal Shipping Service. Occasionally ships of the Linea “C” and Grimaldi Lines visit port.

Broadcasting

A wired system, which is now island-wide, is operated by a local company—Barbados Rediffusion Service Limited. It has 20,536 subscribers.

Principal Occupations

Most of the population is engaged in the cultivation of the sugar crop and auxiliary occupations connected with the sugar industry. Approximate figures are—23,000 persons engaged in agriculture, 16,000 in domestic service, 12,000 in the retail trade and 7,000 in construction work. About 1,600 persons are engaged in the fishing industry.

At the end of 1959, there were eight Trade Unions of which five were employers’ associations with membership totalling about 329 business concerns and three workers’ organizations with about 13,000 members.

Main Crops and Products

Sugar cane is the principal export crop grown on all plantations and on nearly all small holdings. In 1960, sugar production was the equivalent of 153,668 long tons.

Yams, sweet potatoes, eddoes, cassava, maize and pigeon peas comprise the main food crops which are grown in accordance with regulations issued annually. Green vegetables and other crops are cultivated on a minor scale and there is a limited production of tree crops and citrus fruit.

The estimated numbers of livestock are as follows:

- Cattle, 17,300; Pigs, 28,100; Sheep, 19,500;
- and Goats, 7,000.

A Central Livestock Station has been established to investigate the possibility of developing an economic system of animal husbandry, with special attention to dairying.

A Fisheries Section of the Department of Agriculture was established in 1944 for the investigation of more efficient methods of marine fishing and to encourage their use. Large scale mechanization of the fishing fleet has been practically accomplished with the assistance of loans from Government, and plans for the establishment of cold storage facilities are nearing completion. The estimated catch of fish during 1959 was 7,000,000 lb. valued at approximately $1,500,000.

Production of natural gas during the year ended 31st March 1959 was 95·8 million cubic feet. During 1959, 10,602·15 tons of temper, building and manurial limestone were exported.

Manufactures include the production of sugar for local consumption, rum, bread and a variety of biscuits, edible oil, aerated waters, cigarettes, soap, ice and furniture.

| Year | Total Imports | Domestic Exports | Re-exports |
|------|---------------|------------------|------------|
| 1938 | $9,938,130    | $5,848,219       | $720,408   |
| 1955 | $55,244,563   | $35,778,657      | $3,068,149 |
| 1956 | $61,314,836   | $32,874,579      | $3,329,433 |
| 1957 | $68,297,984   | $45,010,975      | $3,987,620 |
| 1958 | $73,373,892   | $35,497,827      | $4,581,270 |
| 1959 | $74,862,277   | $39,821,329      | $6,913,324 |

(All figures exclude Bullion and Specie.)

In 1938, 40·7% of the total imports came from the United Kingdom, 13% from Canada, and
17·6% from other Commonwealth countries. In 1959 the corresponding figures were 39·9%, 11·8% and 18·7%.

In 1938 42·2% of exports went to the United Kingdom, 37·5% to Canada, and 1·2% to other Commonwealth countries. In 1959 the corresponding figures were 58·7%, 15·5% and 15·1%.

**Principal Exports by Quantity and Value**

|                | 1938   | 1958   | 1959   |
|----------------|--------|--------|--------|
| Sugar          | 000 tons | 81     | 130    | 157    |
|                | $      | 3,279  | 26,528 | 31,043 |
| Molasses       | 000 gallons | 8,569  | 12,617 | 9,922  |
|                | $      | 2,429  | 4,852  | 4,228  |
| Rum            | 000 gallons | 100    | 836    | 757    |
|                | $      | 45     | 2,249  | 2,150  |
| Soap           | 000 lb. | —      | 827    | 1,038  |
|                | $      | —      | 168    | 211    |
| Margarine      | 000 lb. | —      | 1,083  | 1,398  |
|                | $      | —      | 459    | 597    |
| Edible Oil     | 000 gallons | —      | 64     | 105    |
|                | $      | —      | 131    | 233    |

The chief imports are animal foods, rice, flour, salted pork, milk, lumber, cotton and artificial silk piece-goods, hardware, machinery, motor vehicles, boots and shoes and iron and steel manufactures.

**Marketing and Co-operative Organizations**

In 1959 there were 39 societies registered under the Co-operative Societies Act. Total membership was 1,750.

---

**Governors and Commanders-in-Chief of Barbados from its Settlement in 1627**

| Year | Governor/Commander-in-Chief |
|------|-----------------------------|
| 1628 | Charles Wolferston          |
| 1629 | John Powell                 |
| 1629 | Robert Wheatley             |
| 1629 | Sir William Tufton          |
| 1630 | Henry Hawley                |
| 1640 | Sir Henry Hunks             |
| 1641 | Philip Bell                 |
| 1650 | Francis, Lord Willoughby    |
| 1651 | Sir George Ayscue           |
| 1652 | Daniel Searle               |
| 1660 | Thomas Modiford             |
| 1660 | Humphrey Walrond (Deputy Governor) |
| 1663 | Francis, Lord Willoughby    |
| 1666 | Henry Willoughby            |
|      | William Willoughby          |
|      | Henry Hawley                |
|      | Samuel Barwick              |
| 1667 | William, Lord Willoughby    |
| 1674 | Sir Jonathan Atkins         |
| 1680 | Sir Richard Dutton          |
| 1690 | James Kendall               |
| 1694 | Francis Russell             |
| 1698 | Ralph Grey                  |
| 1703 | Sir Bevill Granville        |
| 1707 | Metford Crowe               |
| 1711 | Robert Lowther              |
| 1722 | Henry Worsley               |
| 1733 | Viscount Howe               |
| 1739 | Hon. Robert Bing            |
| 1742 | Sir Thomas Robinson         |
| 1747 | Hon. Henry Grenville        |
| 1753 | Charles Pinfold             |
| 1768 | William Spry                |
| 1772 | Hon. Edward Hay             |
| 1780 | James Cunningham            |
| 1784 | David Parry                 |
| 1794 | George Poyntz Rickets       |
| 1801 | Lord Seaforth               |
| 1806 | John Spooner (Acting Governor) |

---

**Executive Council**

- The Governor.
- The Chief Secretary.
- The Attorney-General.
- Sir John Saint, C.M.G., O.B.E.
- H. G. H. Cummins, C.B.E. (Premier).
- F. C. Hutson, C.B.E.

**Executive Committee**

The Executive Council and

- Minister without Portfolio—E. F. L. Morris.
- Minister for Social Services—F. E. Miller.
- Minister for Communications, Works and Housing—R. G. Mapp.
- Minister for Trade, Industry and Labour—M. E. Cox.
- Minister for Agriculture, Lands and Fisheries—D. D. Garner.
- Minister for Education—L. St. A Thorne.

(Clerk) F. M. Blackman.

**Cabinet**

The Executive Committee less all members of the Executive Council except the Premier.

**Legislative Council**

Sir Gray Massiah, C.B.E. (President).

Other Appointed Members.

F. M. Blackman (Clerk).

(Sergeant-at-Arms) (ex officio) The Provost-Marshal.

(Chaplain) Rev. W. E. Dash.

**House of Assembly**

(Speaker) K. N. R. Husbands.

24 Elected Members (2 each for 12 electoral districts).

(Clerk) H. O. St. C. Cumberbatch.

(Deputy Clerk) H. L. Thomas.

(Marshal) G. Brathwaite.

(Chaplain) Rev. S. A. E. Coleman.
State of Parties: (After By-election 21st May 1958.)

Seats

Labour ........................................... 13
Democratic Labour Party ......................... 5
Barbados National Party .......................... 3
Independent ....................................... 3

CIVIL ESTABLISHMENT

GOVERNOR AND COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF
—Sir John Montague Stow, K.C.M.G.

Aide-de-Camp—R. W. S. Brander.

Chief Secretary—G. T. Barton, C.M.G., O.B.E.
Financial Secretary (and Commissioner of Currency)
—E. S. S. Burrowes, C.M.G.
Permanent Secretaries—L. A. Pinard; J. C. King;
F. L. Cozier; C. B. Williams; C. A. Burton;
V. I. de L. Carrington.
Assistant Chief Secretary—R. A. Clarke.
Assistant Financial Secretary—H. S. Jervois.
Accountant General—M. I. Phillips.
Assistant Accountant General—R. McConney.
Director of Agriculture—A.deK. Frampton,
C.M.G.
Deputy Director—J. M. Cave.
Auditor-General—C. D. Gittens.
Director of Civil Aviation—P. D Lopez.
Bishop—Right Reverend Lewis Evans.
Comptroller of Customs—E. C. Emtage.
Assistant Comptroller of Customs—(Vacant).
Director of Education—R. S. Jordan.
Deputy Director of Education—(Vacant).
Principal, Erdiston College—J. D. Bentley.
Principal, Technical Institute—J. A. Holmes.
Electrical Engineer—C. G. Johnston.
Harbour and Shipping Master—Lt.-Comdr. N. C.
Easey, R.N. (retd.), T.D.
Director of Highways and Transport—G. A.
Grant M.B.E
Information Officer—G. Holder.
Commissioner of Inland Revenue—N. D. Osborne.
Assistant Commissioner—V. E. Cobham.
Labour Commissioner—(Vacant).
Assistant Labour Commissioner—D. N. Lewis.
Law Officers: Attorney-General—Charles A.
Burton
Solicitor-General—D. E. G. Malone.
Local Government Commissioner—C. A. Ramsay.
Superintendent of Markets—A. L. Raeburn.
Director of Medical Services—M. A. Byer, O.B.E.
Senior Medical Officer of Health—E. Cochrane.
Medical Superintendent, Mental Hospital—R. M.
Lloyd-Still, O.B.E.
Bacteriologist and Pathologist—W. dos Santos.
Surgeon Specialist, General Hospital—A. G.
Leacock.
Physician Specialist, General Hospital—H. McD
Forde.
Medical Superintendent—A. D. Sinclair.
Commissioner of Police—R. A. Stoute.
Deputy Commissioner—W. A. Farmer.
Chief Fire Officer—A. G. Bradford.
Deputy Chief Fire Officer—St. C. Clarke.
Superintendent of Prisons—W. A. Redhead.
Assistant Superintendent of Prisons—L. C.
Banfield.
Postmaster-General—N. W. Legall.
Assistant Postmaster-General—W. Wharton.
Government Printer—L. L. Gittens.
Director of Public Works—K. J. Tomlin, O.B.E.
Executive Engineers—D. C. Imbert;
M. A. Rocheford
Manager of Savings Bank—(Vacant).
Social Welfare Officer—(Vacant).
Government Statistician—R. C. Springer.
Assistant Government Statistician—(Vacant).
Controller of Supplies—R. N. Jack.
Chief Engineer, Waterworks—E. C. Parfitt.
Mechanical Engineer, Waterworks—(Vacant).

JUDICIARY

Chief Justice—Sir K. S. Stoby.
Puisne Judges—F. E. Field; A. J. H. Hanschell.
Registrar, Supreme Court—(Vacant).
Deputy Registrar—C. A. Rocheford.
Crown Solicitor—A. W. Symmonds.
Town and Country Planning Officer—P. H. M.
Stevens.

Dominica

Area and Population

The area is approximately 305 square miles, and the population at the last census (7th April 1960) was 59,862.

Principal Town

Roseau is the capital and has a population of about 10,422.

Geographical Features

Dominica is very mountainous and picturesque. An almost continuous range of mountains rising to 4,747 feet at Imray's View, the culminating point of Morne Diablotin, runs the whole length of the island. The island is well-watered.

Climate

The climate on the whole is good; during the cool months of the year, from December to March, it is distinctly pleasant. The dry season lasts from about February to May; June to October are generally the wettest months.

History

Dominica was discovered by Columbus in 1493. It was included in the grant made of sundry islands in the Caribbean Sea to the Earl of Carlisle, by a patent, dated 2nd July 1627; but several attempts to bring the place under subjection to the English proved abortive. By the treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle in 1748, it was stipulated between the English and the French that Dominica and some other islands should remain neutral and that the original proprietors, the Caribs, should be left in possession. During the time that it was thus professedly regarded as a "neutral" island, many French planters and adventurers settled on it and established plantations.

Dominica was captured by the English in 1761, and by the Peace of Paris in 1763 was assigned to Great Britain. In 1778 the French invaded the island, which capitulated after an heroic resistance by the garrison. In 1783 it was again restored to England by the Treaty of Versailles.
Two further attempts by the French at capturing the island were made in 1795 and 1805, but they were both unsuccessful and from the latter date it has remained in undisturbed British possession.

Until 1940 Dominica was grouped with the Leeward Islands.

Constitution

The constitutional arrangements are the same as for Antigua (see page 185) except that provision is made for eleven elected members in the Legislative Council.

Taxation

The main heads of taxation are income tax and Customs and excise duties. Income tax ranges from 2d. to 10s. in the £ of chargeable income in the case of individuals; companies are charged at the rate of 6s. on every £ of chargeable income. Ad valorem duty is collected chiefly on manufactured goods and varies from 5% to 35% preferential and 3% to 75% general. Specific rates of duty apply mainly to foodstuffs. Export duty, at a varying rate, is payable on most products exported. Excise duty is payable on rum, cigarettes, cigars and black leaf tobacco.

| Public Finance | Revenue* | Expenditure |
|---------------|----------|-------------|
|               | $000 B.W.I. | $000 B.W.I. |
| 1938          | 354       | 356         |
| 1955          | 3,271     | 3,374       |
| 1956          | 3,032     | 3,620       |
| 1957          | 4,245     | 4,176       |
| 1958          | 4,834     | 5,065       |
| 1959          | 5,874     | 5,406       |

* Including grant-in-aid from H.M. Treasury and Colonial Development and Welfare issues.

Of the total revenue in 1959 $1,698,796 was derived from Customs, $471,452 from Taxes and $86,130 from Fees of Court, etc.

In the same year the main heads of expenditure were: Education $662,128, Medical $518,451, Police $300,868, Public Works Department $1,826,583.

Currency

(See above under Antigua—page 186.)

Development Plans

The Colony was allocated $3,715,776 under the Colonial Development and Welfare Act, 1945 for the ten year period ended 31st March 1956 as well as further sums of $3,936,000 under the 1955 Act and of $4,800,000 under the 1959 Act. Development Schemes fall under six main headings as follows:

- Agriculture and Forestry.
- Public Works.
- Education.
- Medical.
- Social Welfare.
- Miscellaneous.

In addition to the above, the Colony is engaged upon a programme of Public Works amounting to £405,000 financed from Loan Funds as set out below:

- Ferro-concrete Jetty at Roseau $321,600 (completed)
- Town expansion and slum clearance $177,600 (completed)
- Roads $854,400
- Prison, Police and Fire Brigade Reorganization $173,871 (completed)
- Purchase of Packing Plant $24,000 (completed)
- Telephone Improvement $182,400
- Water Supplies $69,600
- Customs Warehouse, Roseau $76,800 (completed)
- Citrus Loading Ramp $9,610 (completed)
- Electricity Supply, Portsmouth Reserve $48,000
- $8,831

A fair proportion of the Development and Welfare funds allocated to Agriculture, Education, and Medical programmes is for building construction undertaken by the Public Works Department.

Other Development

The Colonial Development Corporation is engaged on development of Melville Hall Estate in the northern part of the island. The Corporation constructed a hydro-electric plant near Roseau in 1953.

Education

There are 49 Elementary Schools with a total enrolment of 13,238 pupils, and four Secondary Schools with an enrolment of 1,186 pupils. There are also 13 private or temporary schools with an enrolment of 800 pupils. There is no technical school nor any local institution of Higher Education. The numbers of students from this Colony known to be in Universities or University Colleges abroad are:

- United Kingdom 54
- Canada 9
- Jamaica (University College of the West Indies) 16
- Trinidad (I.C.T.A.) 2
- France 1
- Belgium 1
- U.S.A. 6
- Puerto Rico 17

In 1959 Government expenditure on Education was $662,128 as compared with $34,800 in 1936.

Libraries, Museums, etc.

There is a free public library in Roseau; and the Dominica Museum has a fine collection of pictures, specimens of birds and fishes, and relics of the original Caribs.

Health

There are five Government hospitals, including a Leper Home, with a total of 233 beds; 4,873 patients were admitted to these hospitals during 1959. Regular clinics are held throughout the year by District Medical Officers at the 25 dispensaries distributed all over the island. A Maternity, Child Hygiene and School Health Service with its Headquarters in Roseau is operated by a Senior Health Visitor, assisted by five Health Visitors, under the direction of the Senior Medical Officer. As part of its functions the clinic distributes free
milk, cod liver oil and food yeast to needy and undernourished children. Under a U.N.I.C.E.F. school feeding programme, all children in primary schools receive a pint of reconstituted milk daily. There are also an Anti-Yaws Campaign and a Dental Service.

The Health Department is under the control of the Senior Medical Officer who is also Chairman of the Central Board of Health. This Board is statutorily constituted and is responsible to Government for the initiation and carrying out of public health measures.

Government expenditure on medical and allied services in 1959 was $518,451 compared with $19,243 in 1936.

Communications

An airfield is under construction and completion is expected in 1961. A temporary air service is operated by the Leeward Islands Air Transport Service, Ltd., a subsidiary of B.W.I.A.

Sailing and motor vessels connect Dominica with most of the smaller West Indian islands.

The following steamship lines call at Roseau:—American Defence, Booth American, Compagnie Générale Transatlantique, Combined Grimaldi and Siosa, Federal Government Shipping Services, Geest Industries, Ltd., Harrison, Lamport Holt, Linea “C”, Royal Netherlands Steamship, Ltd., Royal Mail, Saguenay, and Sicula Oceanica.

There are about 146 miles of oiled surface roads, 278 miles of secondary roads and 326 miles of tracks and byways.

Broadcasting

(See under Grenada—page 197.)

Principal Occupations

Agriculture is the principal occupation and provides employment for about 6,000 wage-earners in addition to about 3,000 peasants. Road and building construction workers are estimated at 3,000. Manufactures employ 1,800, transport 900, and commerce 500. There are three trade unions with a membership of approximately 5,000.

Main Crops and Products

The main crops are bananas, limes, coconuts, grapefruit, oranges, cocoa, vanilla, mangoes, avocado pears and various ground provisions for domestic use. The main products are raw and sweetened lime juice, lime oil, copra and rum.

The livestock population consists of about 4,000 head of cattle. A Government stock farm has been established in order to stimulate expansion of the livestock industry.

There is some production of timber for local use, but no export trade.

The production of handicrafts from local straws is a widespread minor industry. The annual value of production is estimated at $64,709.

| Year | Imports ($000 B.W.I.) | Exports ($000 B.W.I.) |
|------|-----------------------|----------------------|
| 1938 | 494                   | 372                  |
| 1955 | 6,060                 | 5,052                |
| 1956 | 6,938                 | 5,810                |
| 1957 | 7,800                 | 5,208                |
| 1958 | 8,761                 | 6,772                |
| 1959 | 9,936                 | 6,653                |

In 1938, 39·4% of imports came from the United Kingdom, 40·3% from other Commonwealth countries and 20·3% from foreign countries. In 1959 the corresponding percentages were 35·2, 39·6 and 25·2.

In 1938, 15·7% of exports went to the United Kingdom, 62·1% to other Commonwealth countries and 21·8% to foreign countries. In 1959 the corresponding percentages were 82·9, 12·1 and 4·9.

Principal Exports by Quantity and Value ($B.W.I.)

| Item          | 1938 | 1958 | 1959 |
|---------------|------|------|------|
| Cocoa, raw    | 000 lb. | 391 | 333 | 314 |
|               | $000 | 16 | 205 | 170 |
| Copra         | 000 lb. | 240 | 2,206 | 2,192 |
|               | $000 | 5 | 295 | 307 |
| Bananas       | 000 stems | 79 | 1,638 | 2,049 |
|               | $000 | 39 | 3,718 | 4,521 |
| Raw Lime Juice| 000 gals. | 125 | 727 | 402 |
|               | $000 | 29 | 1,170 | 610 |
| Lime Oil      | 000 lb. | 16 | 44 | 21 |
|               | $000 | 50 | 553 | 238 |
| Vanilla       | 000 lb. | 8 | 12 | 11 |
|               | $000 | 18 | 153 | 156 |
| Grapefruit    | 000 crates | 5 | 14 | 23 |
|               | $000 | 8 | 84 | 139 |

The chief imports are food, drink and tobacco, textiles, machinery and metal manufactures.

Marketing and Co-operative Organizations

All fresh fruit for export beyond the Caribbean area is required by law to be packed at a licensed packing house. The Government Fruit Packing and Marketing Depot continues to offer facilities for marketing abroad of citrus and other fruit. In 1959 there were the following co-operative societies operating:

Nineteen Credit Unions with 7,453 members;
Three Marketing and Processing Societies (Lime Juice and Lime Oil, Oranges and Grapefruit) with 155 members.

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL

The Administrator.
Crown Attorney.
E. O. Le Blanc (Chief Minister and Minister of Finance).
N. A. N. Ducreay (Minister for Trade and Production).
W. S. Stevens (Minister for Labour and Social Services).
L. C. Didier (Minister for Communications and Works).
R. P. St. Luce (Member without Portfolio).
Clerk—C. A. Sorhaindo.

LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL

Speaker (to be elected).
Crown Attorney.
2 Nominated Unofficial Members.
11 Elected Members.
Clerk—C. A. Sorhaindo.

State of Parties (January 1961):

Dominica Labour Party . . . 7 seats
Dominica United People's Party . . . 3 seats
Independent . . . . . . . . . 1 seat
11 seats
CIVIL ESTABLISHMENT

Administrator—Colonel A. Lovelace, C.M.G., M.B.E., M.C.
Chief Secretary—L. A. Roberts.
Financial Secretary—A. D. W. Johnson.
Assistant Secretary, Administrator’s Office—Miss E. Nicholls.
Principal Secretary and Establishment Officer—(Vacant).
Public Relations Officer—J. J. Robinson.
Principal Secretary, Ministry of Trade and Production—C. A. Seignoret.
Principal Secretary, Ministry of Labour and Social Services—W. O. Severin.
Principal Secretary, Ministry of Communications and Works—D. K. Burton.
Assistant Secretary, Financial Secretary’s Office—N. E. Watty.
Accountant General—L. W. Edwards.
Senior Examiner of Accounts—E. W. Butler.
Comptroller of Income Tax—(Vacant).
Commissioner for Agricultural Development—M. A. G. Hanschell.
Agricultural Superintendent and Curator, Botanic Gardens—H. A. L. Francis.
Senior Customs Officer—G. R. Cools-Lartigue.
Education Officer—O. A. Walker.
Head Master, Grammar School—U. G. Crick.
Registrar and Provost-Marshal, Registrar-General—T. A. Boyd.
Magistrate, District “E”—R. A. Crane.
Magistrate, District “F”, and Government Officer, Eastern District—V. A. Winston.
Magistrate, District “G” and District Officer, Northern District—A. B. Marie.
Labour Officer—R. L. Blanchard.
Law Officer: Crown Attorney and Additional Magistrate, District “E”—N. A. Bertridge.
Senior Medical Officer and Medical Officer of Health—G. W. Moore.
Superintendent of Police—(Vacant).
Colonial Postmaster—N. W. Royer.
Superintendent of Prisons—G. M. Clarke.
Social Development Officer—Mrs. L. Robinson, M.B.E.
Director of Works—T. H. Shillingford.
Conservator of Forests, Windward Islands—R. S. Ayliffe.

Puisne Judge (Dominica Circuit)—J. W. B. Chenery.

Geographical Features

In structure, Grenada is a moderately eroded volcanic pile. In general it consists of a somewhat disordered topography of mountains and fairly deep, steep-sided valleys. A backbone of mountains traverses the whole length, closer to the western than the eastern coastline. The highest points are Mt. St. Catherine (2,749 feet), Fedon’s Camp (2,512 feet) and Morne Quaqua (2,412 feet). From the north-east end and along the east and south-east the mountains slope gradually towards the sea. The south coast is deeply indented by numerous natural harbours. The island is well-watered by quick-flowing streams. Approximately 10,000 acres are under forest. A small lake, the Grand Etang (approximately 36 acres), lies at a height of about 1,800 feet in the centre of the Island.

Climate

Rainfall is low in the coastal areas and high in the mountains of the interior, with an average range of 60 to 150 inches per annum. The months January to May are relatively dry, June to December relatively wet, August being the driest month, and November the wettest.

History

Grenada was discovered by Columbus in 1498. It was originally inhabited by Caribs. A company of London merchants attempted to form a settlement in 1609 but were so harassed by the Caribs that the attempt was abandoned. Grenada was, however, included in the Carlisle Grant of 1627. In 1650, Du Parquet, Governor of Martinique, purchased the island from the French West India Company to whom it had been granted by the King of France and established a settlement at St. George’s. This venture did not pay and Du Parquet sold the island to the Comte De Cerillac from whom it was in turn purchased in 1665 by the French Company and passed to the Crown of France in 1674.

Conquered by the British in 1762, the island was formally ceded to the British Crown by the Treaty of Paris in 1763. In 1779, England being preoccupied with the American War of Independence, Grenada was retaken by the French, but restored to Britain by the Treaty of Versailles in 1783 and re-occupied in 1784. In 1795-96 a rebellion against British rule was instigated by a French Republican from Guadeloupe. The rising was suppressed in 1796 and since then there has been peace in Grenada.

Constitution

The constitutional arrangements are the same as in Antigua (see page 185).

Taxation

Forms of direct taxation include income tax, estate duties, and property tax. Income tax is based on a graduated scale, varying from 5 cents to 65 cents in the $ for individuals (on chargeable income for the year immediately preceding the year of assessment). Companies pay at the rate of 37½ per cent. There is a land tax of 24 cents per acre and house tax is levied on a sliding scale varying from $1·20 per house of rental value between $24 and $28·80 per annum to 8½% in the case of houses with rental value over $144 per annum. Other forms of taxation include import, export and excise duties.

Grenada

Area

The total area of the Colony is 133 square miles. In addition to the island of Grenada it includes certain of the small islands known as the Grenadines, the largest of which, Carriacou, has an area of about 13 square miles.

Population

The population at the census on 7th April 1960 of 88,500 is for the most part coloured. There is a small white population, a number of Indians and a small community of the descendants of early white settlers.

Principal Town

The capital, St. George’s, has a population of 7,305.
Public Finance

| Year | Revenue (B.W.I.) | Expenditure (B.W.I.) |
|------|------------------|---------------------|
| 1938 | 815,040          | 825,394             |
| 1955 | 5,187,556        | 4,702,978           |
| 1956 | 4,862,632        | 5,009,050           |
| 1957 | 4,575,584        | 5,093,817           |
| 1958 | 5,467,867        | 5,899,994           |
| 1959 | 7,482,470        | 7,005,526           |

At the end of 1959 the Public Debt amounted to $10,974,831 (including a Hurricane Rehabilitation Loan from the United Kingdom Government of $7,057,997) and accumulated Sinking Funds to $870,973.

Currency

The currency of the Colony is the West Indian dollar which is linked to sterling at the rate of $4·80 to the £.

Notes issued by the Eastern Caribbean Currency Board were introduced in 1951 when the Windward Islands joined with the other British territories in the Eastern Caribbean (Barbados, British Guiana, the Leeward Islands and Trinidad) in a common currency.

Notes issued by the Government of Trinidad and Tobago, Barclays Bank (Dominion, Colonial and Overseas) and the Royal Bank of Canada continue as legal tender but are being withdrawn and the banks' powers of note issue have been terminated. Meanwhile United Kingdom coinage has also largely been replaced by the Board's own dollar coinage, though the diminishing United Kingdom coinage continues as legal tender.

Development Plans

Under the 1945, 1950 and 1955 Colonial Development and Welfare Acts Grenada received allocations totalling £1,131,121; a further allocation of £540,000 was made under the 1959 Act.

In addition a local loan of $1,500,000 was raised in 1960 principally to provide for the improvement and extension of the water supply services of the Island.

Other Development

Progress has been made in the direction of attracting external investment for the development of the tourist industry which the Colony is not in a position to finance. A step forward has also been made in setting out Government's policy regarding Morne Rouge development in the interest of tourism.

Education

There were 55 Primary Schools in the Colony, with rolls totalling 21,930 pupils at 31st December 1959. Average attendance in 1959 was 17,221 or 78·7% of the total enrolment. Compulsory attendance is not at present enforced. Twelve of the Primary Schools are maintained entirely by Government, the remainder are under denominational control and receive grants-in-aid from public funds. Government is at present pursuing a policy of gradual replacement of dilapidated buildings by Government-owned buildings of an approved standard and model. The actual operation of such schools, however, will remain under denominational control by written agreement.

There are two handicraft centres. In addition three schools have well-equipped handicraft rooms. There are also three domestic science centres, with adequate facilities provided at two other schools. A visual education unit serves the whole Colony. A filmstrip library service with four projectors is maintained. Six Secondary Schools (one Government and five grant-aided) have a total roll of 1,596 (end 1959). Two of the schools are for boys only, three for girls only and one is co-educational. All secondary schools teach up to the School Certificate standard and the Grenada Boys' Secondary School, the Presentation Boys' College, the St. Joseph's Convent, St. George's, and the Anglican High School also prepare pupils for the Cambridge Higher School Certificate examination. The cost to Government of primary and secondary education during 1959 was $897,524.

The Government awards, among others, two biennial island scholarships, one tenable at a University in the British Commonwealth, open to both male and female candidates; and one tenable at the University College of The West Indies Faculty of Agriculture.

Libraries, etc.

There is a free public library in St. George's.

Health

A WHO Campaign for the eradication of *Aedes aegypti* has been in operation since 1953 and is well on the way to success. The mainland of Grenada has been negative since 1955 but Carriacou remains positive. A programme for the control of malaria which was incorporated in the 1953 programme for *aegypti* eradication was expanded in 1957 to a malaria eradication programme, leading to a decline in the incidence of the disease. There has been no case of malaria since March 1959 and the programme has now entered the surveillance stage.

The WHO-UNICEF also assisted with the B.C.G. campaign in 1954, with follow-up in 1955 and 1956, and subsequent incorporation of the programme into the normal activities of the Health Department; also with a scheme for the supplementary feeding of school children, expectant and nursing mothers.

In 1956 a treponematosis campaign was undertaken with the object of eradication of yaws and a reduction in the incidence of venereal diseases. Evaluation and surveillance which have been continuing since then have shown that yaws has been eradicated.

The Colony Hospital of 230 beds is at St. George's. The Princess Alice Hospital, St. Andrew's, is a modern building, recently constructed, and provides 32 beds. The district hospital in Carriacou which was completely destroyed by the hurricane of 22nd September 1955 has been rebuilt and was opened on 16th July 1958. It has been named the Princess Royal Hospital.

There are 25 district Medical Visiting Stations throughout the Colony with resident nurse-midwives in charge. Maternity and child welfare work is carried on in all these stations. There are three main Health Centres at St. George's, Gouyave, and St. David's, and in four of the Visiting Stations accommodation has been improved to provide subsidiary Health Centres.

Expenditure on medical and sanitary services in 1959 amounted to $921,994 compared with $97,987 in 1935.
Communications

The airfield is at Pearls, and has a runway 5,280 feet long by 150 feet wide. The Colony is served regionally by Leeward Islands Air Transport with a twice-weekly service and by British West Indian Airways with eighteen flights weekly; scheduled connections being available to North and South America and Europe.

There are approximately 476 miles of good roads divided into four classes: Class I—188½ miles, Class II—102½ miles, Class III—90½ miles, Class IV—94½ miles. About 256 miles have an oiled surface. There are no railways.

The chief port is St. George's which possesses a good harbour. Part of this harbour, called the inner harbour, is well sheltered with a deep-water pier 800 feet long and minimum draft of 30 feet alongside. The entrance to this inner harbour is through a channel 600 feet wide with a minimum depth of 45 feet. Other ports include Grenville and Hillsborough, Carriacou, but these are mostly used by small craft.

Regular cargo services are provided by Harrison Line Steamers and by vessels chartered by Geest Industries Limited from United Kingdom ports; by the Saguenay Shipping Company from Canadian ports; by the Booth and American Defence Lines from the United States ports and by the Royal Netherlands Steamship Company from European ports. The Federal Shipping Service together with several small motor vessels, auxiliary and sailing vessels take care of the cargo services between the islands and also provide a useful passenger service.

Several foreign ships make frequent calls at this port to take immigrants to the United Kingdom. Passenger travel to the U.S.A. and Canada, however, has to be made through Trinidad or Barbados.

Total shipping for 1959 was 738 motor and steamships of 928,478 net registered tons of which 410 ships of 214,985 net registered tons were British.

There were also 526 British sailing and auxiliary motor ships of 18,651 net registered tons.

Broadcasting

A Broadcasting Service with headquarters in St. George's, Grenada, was inaugurated in 1955. Transmissions take place on short waves from a 5 kW transmitter, and cover the Eastern Caribbean.

The capital outlay on these stations, and the running costs for the first few years, have been provided from Colonial Development and Welfare funds.

Principal Occupations

The following is a summary of gainfully-employed labour for 1958:

- Agriculture—
  - Field Workers . . . . . . 5,357
  - Spice Curing Stations . . . . 212
  - Sugar production (factory):
    - In Season . . . . . . 101
    - Out Season . . . . . . 53

- Government—
  - P.W.D. labour force . . . . . . 1,216
  - Business houses . . . . . . 1,973

Total . . . . . . 8,912

There are twelve registered trade unions.

Main Crops and Products

The main crops are cocoa, nutmegs, mace, bananas, coconuts, limes and sugar cane.

The approximate livestock population is:

- Cattle . . . . . . 7,500
- Equines . . . . . . 6,000
- Sheep and Goats . . . . . . 9,000
- Pigs . . . . . . 9,500
- Poultry . . . . . . 80,000

There is a cigarette factory, a soap and edible fats factory, and a sugar factory producing unrefined sugar for local consumption. The sugar factory also operates a continuous rum-distilling plant and together with a number of estates equipped with pot stills, supplies the demand for uncured rum. A lime factory and two estate equipped lime stills deal with the Island's lime crop. There is also a Government-operated cotton ginnery in Carriacou. One estate in Grenada manufactures and exports nutmeg oil. A brewery is in course of construction. There are two modern soft drink factories.

Trade

| Year | Total Imports ($ B.W.I.) | Re-exports ($ B.W.I.) | Domestic Exports ($ B.W.I.) |
|------|--------------------------|-----------------------|---------------------------|
| 1938 | 1,457,424                | 206,107               | 1,304,290                 |
| 1955 | 10,334,586               | 15,615                | 8,750,126                 |
| 1956 | 12,545,418               | 17,088                | 4,844,098                 |
| 1957 | 10,331,616               | 41,177                | 4,365,619                 |
| 1958 | 11,188,659               | 137,592               | 8,209,113                 |
| 1959 | 12,741,000*              | 101,000*              | 7,631,000*                |

(* provisional)

In 1938 41·8% of total imports came from the United Kingdom, 38·0% from other Commonwealth countries and 20·2% from foreign countries. In 1958 the corresponding percentages were 36·3, 35·6 and 28·1.

In 1938 39·6% of total exports went to the United Kingdom, 36% to other Commonwealth countries and 24·4% to foreign countries. In 1958 the corresponding percentages were 60·9, 7·5 and 31·6.

Principal Exports by Quantity and Value ($ B.W.I.)

| Item          | 1938 | 1958 | 1959 |
|---------------|------|------|------|
| Cocoa (raw)   | cwt. | 85,376 | 28,187 | 38,016* |
| Nutmegs       | cwt. | 36,269 | 13,017 | 10,433* |
| Mace          | cwt. | 5,078 | 1,806 | 1,106* |
| Bananas       | stems | 106,426 | 940,512 | 1,159,000* |
| Cotton (raw)  | cwt. | 2,055 | 1,101 | 869*† |
|               |      | 12,422 | 64,115 | 41,874† |

(* provisional) († 9 months)

The chief imports are foodstuffs, iron and steel, timber, textiles and cement.

Marketing and Co-operative Organizations

A Government-operated Central Marketing Organization was initiated in 1951 for the purchase, sale and, where necessary, storage of surplus quantities of locally grown foodcrops. The nutmeg industry is controlled by the Grenada Co-operative Nutmeg Association which purchases, processes and markets all nutmegs and mace produced in the Colony.

In 1955 a statutory body, the Grenada Banana Co-operative Society, was set up to control the production and marketing of bananas.
Eight fishermen's unions were registered under the Friendly Societies Ordinance in 1954.

A Co-operative Department was established in 1957. It now consists of a Registrar of Co-operatives, a Co-operatives Officer, a Junior Co-operatives Officer and two clerks. The Department is responsible for promotion work as well as registration, supervision and audit.

The position of societies registered under the Co-operatives Ordinance at present is:

- Marketing Societies: 13
- Credit Unions: 12
- School Savings Union: 1
- Credit Union League: 1
- Farmers' Club Council: 1

A recent amendment of the Co-operatives Ordinance permits the registration of school savings unions; 42 of these are still unregistered.

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL

The Administrator (President).
Attorney-General.
H. A. Blaize, J.P. (Chief Minister and Minister of Finance).
R. A. K. Douglas (Minister of Production and Labour).
E. A. Mitchell (Minister for Social Services).
F. C. Noel, J.P. (Minister of Communications, Works and Housing).
D. A. Henry (Member without Portfolio).

LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL

Attorney-General. Ex officio.
10 Elected Members.
2 Nominated Unofficial Members.
Clerk of Councils—R. A. Daniel.

CIVIL ESTABLISHMENT

Administrator—J. M. Lloyd, C.M.G.
Assistant Administrator—H. H. Williams.
Financial Secretary—G. E. C. Stanford.
Principal Assistant Secretaries—

- Ministry of Trade, Planning and Development—N. E. Venner.
- Ministry of Production and Labour—Miss L. Rowley.
- Ministry of Communications and Works—J. G. St. Bernard.
- Ministry of Social Services—G. F. Hosten.
- District Officer, Carriacou—L. J. Rose.
- Accountant-General—F. R. Phillip.
- Senior Examiner of Accounts—B. B. Gittens.
- Superintendent of Agriculture—G. A. Southwell.
- Agricultural Officer (Cocoa)—A. M. Cruickshank.
- Principal Auditor—T. Byrne.
- Education Officer and Senior Inspector of Schools—A. C. G. Palmer, M.B.E.
- Inspector of Schools—A. A. La Grenade, M.B.E.
- Headmaster, Grenada Boys' Secondary School—K. I. M. Smith.
- Chief Engineer, Electricity and Refrigeration Department—N. V. Andalcio.
- Comptroller of Inland Revenue—D. M. B. Cromwell, M.B.E.
- Information Officer—L. C. Stevenson.
- Chief Registrar, Supreme Court—W. F. Cenac.
- Magistrates: Northern and Western—G. A. Redhead; Southern—J. J. Copland; Eastern—R. G. John.
- Labour Commissioner—J. Da Breo.
- Law Officers: Attorney-General—E. A. Heyliger.
- Assistant to Attorney-General—J. A. P. Compton.
- Senior Medical Officer—F. C. Alexis.
- Surgeon Specialist—A. W. Soltsik, M.B.E.
- Medical Superintendent—B. A. Rapier.
- Medical Officer, Princess Alice Hospital—R. R. Japal.
- Chief of Police—J. H. Holley, M.B.E.
- Colonial Postmaster—M. W. Hayling.
- Superintendent of Prisons—P. McLeish.
- Director of Public Works—C. E. Belizaire.
- Veterinary Officer—E. C. Arthur.

Area

The island of Jamaica (together with Pedro and Morant Cays to the south) is situated in the Caribbean Sea, about 90 miles south of Cuba. Its area is 4,411·21 square miles.

Population

According to the 1960 Census preliminary count (Census Day, April 7) the population of Jamaica was 1,606,546, distributed on the basis of the 14 parishes of the Island as follows:

- Kingston, 125,526; St. Andrew, 298,295; St. Thomas, 68,666; Portland, 64,235; St. Mary, 93,782; St. Ann, 114,611; Trelawny, 55,642; St. James, 83,246; Hanover, 53,253; Westmoreland, 107,845; St. Elizabeth, 114,594; Manchester, 111,848; Clarendon, 162,221; St. Catherine, 152,782.

The 1943 Census gave the population as 1,237,063, and the percentage racial distribution (calculated as percentages of specified races only) as:

- African: 77·9%
- "Coloured": 16·9%
- East Indian: 2·5%
- Chinese: 1·3%
- European: 1·3%
- Other Races: 0·1%

Principal Towns

The capital is Kingston, which, together with Port Royal, has an estimated population of 125,526. The other principal towns are:

| Population (Census 1960) |
|--------------------------|
| Montego Bay              | 24,445 |
| Spanish Town             | 16,547 |

Geographical Features

The Island is mountainous and rises in the centre to 7,402 feet (Blue Mountain Peak). The area of land over 1,000 feet above sea level is 2,110 square miles. There are numerous rivers. Forest lands comprise about 480,000 acres (approximately 17% of the total land area), of which 233,664 constitute the Government Forest Reserves.

Climate

Generally speaking, the rainy months are May and October but in the extreme north-east winter rains fall between November and January. The heaviest annual rainfall, which exceeds 200 inches, occurs near the Blue Mountain Ridge in the north-east, the lowest in the extreme south. Hurricanes occur on the average once in seven years. The following table shows the temperatures and rainfall for selected places in 1958.
