BERMUDA—BRITISH GUIANA.

Attorney-General, J. T. Gilbert, O.B.E., 1,000l.
Registrar of Supreme Court and Registrar General, W. N. Parker, Grade I.
Police Magistrate, Eastern District, H. Martin Godet, 700l.
" " Western District, C. T. Fowle, J.P., 400l.
Marshal, Admiralty Court, J. S. McBeath (acting).

Department of Agriculture.
Director of Agriculture, T. A. Russell, special.
Plant Pathologist, J. M. Waterston, Grade I.
1st Agricultural Assistant, W. R. Evans, Grade II.A.
Horticulturist, G. R. Groves, Grade II.A.
Inspector of Produce, T. A. Hollis, Jr., Grade II.B.
Government Veterinary Officer, C. J. Cooper, D.V.S., Grade III.A.

Board of Trade.
Inspector, Board of Trade, J. H. Parker, Grade I.A.
Curator, Aquarium, L. M. Mowbray, 500l.
Assistant Curator, L. S. Mowbray, Grade III.A.
Warden of Pilots, Comdr. Landman, Special.
Head Signalman, A. J. C. J. Moulder, Grade III.B.
Meteorologist, Dr. W. A. Mackey, 740l.-20l.-800l.
Assistant Meteorologist, P. C. Bartrum, Grade II.A.

Trade Development Board.
Secretary, J. J. Outerbridge, special.
Assistant Secretary and Sports Promoter, T. H. Mowbray, Grade II.A.

Department of Education.
Director of Education, C. G. G. Gilbert, B.A., M.C., Special.
Attendance Officer, S. Davis, Grade III.A.

Hospital, King Edward VII Memorial.
Secretary-Manager, P. Pattisson, Grade I.A.

Library and Museum.
Librarian, Miss K. G. S. Scon, Grade III.A.

Immigration.
Chief Immigration Officer, A. T. Guest, Grade II.A.

Military.
General Commanding, Lt.-Gen. Sir Denis J. C. K. Bernard, K.C.B., C.M.G., D.S.O.

Foreign Consuls.
Belgium, A. E. Nicholl, Consul.
" E. R. Ring, Vice-consul.
Denmark, J. D. C. Darrell, Consul.
Finland, W. J. Richardson, Vice-Consul.
France, C. M. Allen, Consular-Agent.
Greece, E. P. T. Tucker, Vice-Consul.
Italy, W. E. Meyer, Consular Agent.
Netherlands, J. D. C. Darrell, Consul.
Norway, H. T. Watlington, Honorary Consul.
Portugal, H. Outerbridge, Consul.
Sweden, E. C. Gosling, Consul.
United States, H. Williamson, Consul.
" E. C. Merrell, Vice-Consul.
" F. J. Robinson, Consular-Agent.

BRITISH GUIANA.

Situation, Area and Population.

British Guiana is the only British Colony on the Mainland of the South American Continent. It lies on the north-eastern coast of the continent between parallels 1° and 8° North and meridians 57° and 61° West. It has a coastline of about 270 miles extending almost from the eastern mouth of the river Orinoco to the river Courantyne, and is bounded on the north by the Atlantic Ocean, on the south and south-west by Brazil, on the east by Dutch Guiana, and on the north-west by Venezuela. It varies in depth from 640 miles on the western to 300 miles on the eastern side.

The area of the Colony is approximately 39,480 square miles, a little larger than the combined areas of England, Scotland and Wales.

The capital is Georgetown, situated in latitude 6° 49' 30" North and longitude 58° 11' 30" West. The population on 31st December, 1937, was 67,448. The next town of importance is New Amsterdam, about 60 miles east of the capital with a population of 9,650.

The estimated population of the Colony on the 31st December, 1937, was 337,039 made up as follows:

| Category          | Population |
|-------------------|------------|
| Aboriginals       | 8,797      |
| East Indians      | 142,978    |
| Chinese           | 3,355      |
| Europeans         | 8,578      |
| Europeans (Portuguese) | 2,233   |
| Europeans (other than Portuguese) | 130,693 |
| Blacks            | 40,405     |
| Mixed, etc.       | 168,289    |

Of the estimated total there were 168,289 males and 168,750 females.

Physiography.

The Colony may be divided into three zones, the northern one is a low-lying flat swampy strip of marine alluvium known as the coastal region. This rises gradually from the seaboard and extends inland for a distance varying from 10 to 40 miles. It is succeeded by a broader and slightly elevated belt consisting of sands and clays which is mainly undulating and in places is covered by sand-dunes rising from 50 to 180 feet above sea level. The southern zone is more elevated. It rises gradually to the south-west between the river valleys, which are in many parts swampy, and contains three principal mountain ranges, several irregularly distributed smaller ranges, and in the southern and eastern parts many isolated hills and mountains. The eastern portion is almost entirely forest-clad, but on the south-western side there is an extensive area of flat grass-clad savannah elevated about 400 to 700 feet above sea level.

The country is traversed by many large rivers, which, with their numerous tributaries and branch streams, form a vast network of waterways. All the larger rivers of the Colony are impeded above the tide-way by numerous rapids, cataracts and falls, which render the navigation of the upper reaches difficult.

In its scenery British Guiana affords very great contrasts. The tourist who visits the colony and confines himself to the flat and settled coast-lands leaves with the impression that British Guiana is merely a mud-flat not entirely above sea-level; but the traveller who penetrates any considerable distance into the vast interior must be greatly impressed by the tropical vegetation of lofty trees, tangled lianas and graceful palms, the hilly nature of the country, the many great ranges and curiously-shaped mountains, the elevated undulating plateaus, the extensive savannahs, and the multitude of...
ay, are
ature of
slightly
arkedly

in the
ed by
ng the
for the
ration
artially
rected
present
tently.
India
624 a
Van
under
english
charles
na) in
Robert
lish a
amous
d his
nt in
Dutch
da in
their
ness,
tugal,
rench
Fleet
o the
taken
Power

n the
con-
mited
ervice
ment
lmin-

dates
was
Body
by
ag in
uncil
ence-
ncies

w to
istory
pre-
picy
made
y to
were
Ese-
ing
ent
of
of
draft
ace
prod-
ing

approved of, a commission was despatched by the
States-General to the Colony, who on their arrival
in 1789 dissolved the then existing Government
and established a new one for the conjoined Colonies.

(c)
Attorney-
Registrar
General Police

Marshal,

Director
Plant Pct
1st Agr
IIa.
Horticulturist
Inspector
Government Grade

Inspector
Curator,
Assistant
Warden
Head S
IIIb.
Meteorologist
Assistant

Secretary
Assistant
Mowbray

Director
M.C.,
Attendan

Secretary

Librarian

Chief Inspector

General
Berna

Belgium
Denmark
Finland,
France,
Greece,
Italy,
Netherlands,
Norway,
Portugal,
Sweden, E. C. Goring, Consul.
United States, H. Williamson, Consul.
E. C. Merrell, Vice-Consul.
F. J. Robinson, Consular-Agent.

of the country, the many great ranges and curiously-
shaped mountains, the elevated undulating plateaus,
the extensive savannahs, and the multitude of
BRITISH GUIANA.

Cataracts and waterfalls of surpassing beauty, which occur on the upper parts of the large rivers and their tributaries.

Situated on the Potaro River is Kaieteur—one of the recognised largest single-drop waterfalls of the world. It is nearly five times the height of Niagara, having a vertical drop of 741 feet, with a series of rapids and falls immediately below the pool, giving a further fall of 80 feet. Its width varies from 350 to 400 feet, and the depth of water passing over from a few feet to 20 feet according to the season of the year. These Falls, which are situated amidst grand and remarkable river and hill scenery, are a source of attraction to tourists. The journey from Georgetown to Kaieteur is now made via the Bartica-Potaro road. Tours are arranged by the Transport and Harbours Department.

Climate.

A.—Coastal Belt.—The climate compares favourably with that of other countries and islands similarly situated, and resembles rather that of a sub-tropical country. The mean temperature throughout the year is 80° F.

For most months of the year the maximum shade temperature is about 85° F., and even in the hottest months (August, September, and October) a temperature of 89° F. is rarely recorded.

At night the temperature falls about 12° to 14° F. The night temperature averages 73° or 74° F., and in the coolest months of the year (January, February and March) it may reach as low as 70° F.

The heat of the sun is tempered by fresh breezes from off the sea which blow steadily and without intermission during the daytime for the greater part of the year, and, during the months of January, February and March, continue both day and night.

The general direction of the wind is North-east to East, and it varies from gentle to fresh with occasional squalls; but hurricanes are unknown. The nights throughout the year are cool and conducive to sleep.

The seasons of the year for the coastal areas are as follows:

- The long wet season—Mid-April to Mid-August.
- The long dry season—Mid-August to Mid-November.
- The short wet season—Mid-November to end of January.
- The short dry season—Beginning of February to Mid-April.

The average rainfall for Georgetown in the county of Demerara is about 88-64 inches annually, that for the County of Berbice being about eight inches lower, and that for the County of Essequibo fourteen inches higher. The most humid month of the year is May, and the atmosphere is driest during September and October. The mean average humidity for Georgetown for the past 83 years is 78 per cent.

B.—Middle Interior and Upper River Areas.—Generally speaking, the climate is hotter and more humid in the interior and river areas away from the coastal belt, the most noticeable change being the absence of the fresh sea breezes which make living so congenial on the seaboard. In forest areas and on rivers surrounded by forests the day temperature is distinctly hot and trying. On the other hand the nights are noticeably cooler than on the coastal belt. The rainfall is heavier.

C.—Far Interior and Savannahs.—Climate, temperature and humidity are modified by the varying physical conformations of the territory in the far south, and depend especially on the altitude and the presence or absence of forest belts. As the name implies, the savannahs, in the upper Berbice river districts and in the south-west of the colony, are free from dense forest and are more in the nature of park country, and here the temperature is slightly higher than in forest regions, and the rainfall markedly less.

History and Constitution.

The coast line of the country between the Rivers Amazon and Orinoco was first traced by Spanish sailors in 1499 and 1500; and, during the 16th and early 17th centuries, the search for the fabulous city of Eldorado stimulated exploration of this region. The territory was first partially settled in 1616 by Dutch merchants, who erected a fort and depot at Fort Kykovoral in the present county of Essequibo. This colony subsequently came under the control of the Dutch West India Company, which was formed in 1621. In 1624 a settlement was founded on the Berbice by Van Peere, a Flushing merchant, and held by him under a licence from the Company. The first English attempt at settlement was made by Captain Charles Leigh on the O'apock river (now French Guiana) in 1604. The effort, though followed up by Robert Harcourt in 1613 and 1627, failed to establish a permanent settlement. Lord Willoughby, famous in the early history of Barbados, also turned his attention to Guiana, and founded a settlement in Surinam in 1650, which was captured by the Dutch in 1667, and ceded to them at the peace of Breda in exchange for New York. The Dutch retained their hold on the three colonies with more or less firmness, now yielding to England, now to France or Portugal, till 1796, when during the war of the French Revolution they were captured by a British fleet from Barbados. The territory was restored to the Dutch in 1802, but in the following year retaken by Great Britain, and finally ceded to that Power in 1814.

In 1745 colonists from Essequibo settled on the Demerara River, and in 1773 Demerara was constituted a separate colony, but in 1784 it was reunited under one government with Essequibo, Berbice being under a separate government, an arrangement which continued in force under the British Administration down to the year 1831.

The constitution of the Colony of Berbice dates from the year 1732. Under it the Governor was nominated by the Directors of the Mercantile Body called the Berbice Association, and was assisted by a council of six. In 1826 an order of the King in Council was issued, dissolving the then Council of Government, appointing another, and thenceforward vesting the right of appointing to vacancies in the Governor as representing the Crown.

The Court of Policy for Essequibo appears to have been established very early in the history of the Colony. Until 1773, Demerara was represented on it. In 1773 a separate Court of Policy was set up for the latter, but provision was made for representatives of the two Courts of Policy to form a Combined Council, and the two bodies were merged in 1789, when the two Colonies of Essequibo and Demerara were united. Disputes having arisen between the Colonists—the local Government and the West India Company as to the right of appointing the colonial members of the Court of Policy, in the year 1787, a provisional "Plan of Redress," as it was termed (being in fact the draft of a new constitution) was framed by a Committee of the States-General, to whom had been referred sundry petitions of the Colonists. This being approved of, a commission was despatched by the States-General to the Colony, who on their arrival in 1789 dissolved the then existing Government and established a new one for the combined Colonies.
BRITISH GUIANA

upon the basis of the scheme in question, which continued in operation notwithstanding the capture of the Colony by the British in 1796 and 1803, the Articles of Capitulation having stipulated that the laws, usages, and institutions of the Colony should be maintained as before.

The Council or Court of Policy consisted of 1st, The Director-General; 2, The Commander of Essequibo; 3, The Fiscal of Essequibo; 4, The Fiscal of Demerara; 5 and 6, two Colonists from Essequibo; 7 and 8, two Colonists from Demerara.

In the first instance, the unofficial portion of the Council was to be chosen from a double nomination by the Colleges of Kiezers or Electors, of which there were two, one for each County,* each consisting of seven Members elected by a majority of the votes of the inhabitants possessing not fewer than twenty-five slaves, such vote to be in writing and signed by the voter. The tenure of the office of Kiezer, as subsequently defined by Proclamation of Sir Benjamin d'Urban in 1831, was to be for life unless the party resigned or ceased to be an inhabitant.

In 1796 it was deemed necessary, during a period of some confusion, to introduce four members "commissioned" by the Colleges of Electors of both Colonies to have, jointly with the Court of Policy, the administration of the public funds. In the following year, however, Governor Beaujon annulled this arrangement, and to secure to the inhabitants more ample control of taxation enacted that in lieu of the four above mentioned, there should be six inhabitants adjoined to the Governor and Court of Policy, three from each Colony, to be elected by the inhabitants qualified as in the case of Kiezers, and to serve for two years, but with powers strictly limited to raising Colony taxes, and assisting in the audit of the public accounts.

Beaujon's proclamation was materially modified, though without affecting the definition of the duties of the financial representatives, by a proclamation of Acting Governor Carmichael in 1812, consolidating the two Colleges of Kiezers and Financial Representatives. This proclamation remained operative though unconfirmed by the Crown, until, in 1831, when the three provinces were united, it was annulled by a Royal Instruction restoring the pre-existing arrangement, and extending the right of suffrage to the inhabitants of Berbice.

In the year 1855 under the administration of Sir Philip Wodehouse, an Ordinance was passed to alter and amend the Political Institutions of the Colony, but it was not approved by Her Majesty and from that date till 1891 the only constitutional legislation was the passing of Ordinance No. 1 of 1864, a declaratory Act, defining the meaning of the term "Colonist," as employed in the "Plan of Redress" above noticed; and Ordinance No. 16 of 1864, to remove some difficulties in the exercise of the functions of the College of Electors.

The Constitution, as it existed up to 1891, may be summed up very briefly. It consisted of a Governor, Court of Policy, and a Combined Court. The unofficial members of the Combined Court and Court of Policy were chosen by a College of Electors. The functions of an Executive and Legislative Council and House of Assembly were performed by the Governor and Court of Policy, except as regards taxation and finance, which were dealt with by the Combined Court, composed of the Governor and Members of the Court of Policy, combined with the six Financial Representatives. The Court of Policy passed all laws and ordinances, except the Annual Tax Ordinance, which was passed by the Combined Court.

During 1891 an Act was passed, which came into force in 1892, effecting a considerable change in the constitution. By this Act the administrative functions of the Court of Policy were transferred to an executive council, and the duties of the former became purely legislative.

The College of Electors was abolished, and the unofficial members have since been elected by the direct vote of the whole body of electors.

The Combined Court had the power of (1) imposing the Colonial taxes and auditing the public accounts; and (2) discussing freely and without reserve the items on the annual estimates prepared by the Governor in Executive Council; it could reduce or reject, but not increase, any item. The first of these powers was bestowed in 1796, when Governor Beaujon called the financial representatives into being, "with a right of voting only for the raising of colonial taxes and not further"; while the second was conferred periodically by His Majesty's Order in Council after each renewal of the Civil List and was co-existent with the Civil List.

The Court of Policy consisted of the Governor, seven official members, and eight elected members. It could be prorogued or dissolved at any time by the Governor and in any case was dissolved at the end of five years, and a general election had to be held within two months of the date of dissolution. The number of financial representatives, who with the Court of Policy formed the Combined Court, was 6.

In 1926, at the request of the Secretary of State, a commission consisting of Sir Roy Wilson and Mr. H. Snell, M.P., was sent to British Guiana to report on the economic conditions. In its report (Cmd. 2841) the commission stated that one of the greatest impediments to development was the financial situation, and that it was essential that the Government should have power in the last resort to carry into effect measures which it considered essential, and that for this purpose an alteration in the constitution would be necessary. A local commission was appointed in 1927 to consider the steps to be taken to confer the necessary powers on the Governor and reported in favour of a change in the constitution.

