THE GOLD COAST.

THE GOLD COAST COLONY.

Situation and Native Tribes.

The Gold Coast Colony, with Ashanti, the Northern Territories, and Togoland under British Mandate, is situated on the Gulf of Guinea, between 8° 16' W. long. and 1° 12' E. long., and is bounded on the west by the French colony of the Ivory Coast, on the east by Togoland under French Mandate, on the north by the French Soudan, and on the south by the Atlantic Ocean.

The area of the Colony is 23,937 square miles, of Ashanti, 24,379, of the Northern Territories, 30,486, and of Togoland under British Mandate, 13,041.

The Colony is inhabited by a large number of tribes, whose customs and forms of government are of a more or less similar character. Each tribe has its own head chief and every town or village of the tribe a chief or headman.

The head chiefs and chiefs form the council of the tribe, and assist in dealing with matters affecting its general welfare. The succession to the chiefs' stools is for the most part in the female line, the heir to the stool being selected from among the sons of the occupant's sisters, his brothers and the male off-spring of his aunts on the mother's side.

The principal sea coast states are the following:—Nzima, Ahanta, Sekondi, Komenda, Edina, Oguasa, Winneba, Assin Gomoa, Ga, Adaumie, Awuna and Agbomome.

In the interior of the Colony the principal states are:—Aowin, upper and lower Wassaw, Sefwi, upper and lower Denkera, Tutef, Assen, Esikuma, Ajumako, Birim Akim Abuakwa and Birim Kwahu, Akim Kotoku, Akwapim, eastern and western Krobo, Akwamu, Krepi, Shai and Ningo.

A number of different languages and dialects are spoken, the principal being, Twi, Fanti, Ewe and Ga; but the use of English is widespread.

For the purposes of administration the Colony is divided into three provinces, each presided over by
a Provincial Commissioner. These Provinces are further divided into districts, presided over by District Commissioners. Most of these Officers perform judicial duties as magistrates in addition to being in administrative charge of their districts.

The districts are as follows:

1. Western province:—Districts—Ahanta-Nzima, Wean-Aowin, Sofwi.
2. Central province:—Districts—Cape Coast, Saltpond, Winneba, Western Akim.
3. Eastern province:—Districts—Accra, Akwapim-New Juaben, Volta River, Keta-Ada, Birim (Akim-Abuakwa) and Birim (Kwahu), Kpandu-Ho (Togoland).

History.

Little is known of the history of the people of the Gold Coast prior to the first recorded contact with Europeans, which took place towards the end of the 16th century, but tradition, borne out by the present language distribution and by the absence of traces of large earlier settlements, is that the present population resulted from a series of waves of immigration in comparatively recent historical times.

Of these immigrants the most numerous were the Akan who, displaced by more warlike and better organised tribes, came from the north-west in search of sanctuary to the forests of the Gold Coast, some sections of them eventually reaching the sea. Their numbers being augmented by a succession of later waves, the Akan assimilated the aborigines and gradually occupied the greater part of the country. Behind the Akan came the Moshi who, partly by conquest and partly by peaceful penetration, obtained supremacy over the inhabitants of the northern portion of the Gold Coast and established the Mamprusi and Dagomba kingdoms under the rule of sons or other relatives of their leaders. At a later date the south-east corner of the Colony was peopled by an infiltration of Ga, Adangbe and Ewe tribes from the east and north-east.

The first Europeans to reach the Gold Coast were the Portuguese who, arriving in 1471, built the Castle at Elmina eleven years later in order to protect their trading interests. They found a people of hunters and fishermen, primitive in habits and development, yet understanding the working of iron and fully conscious of the value of gold. No native state of any size had yet been established, but numerous petty chiefdoms were in existence.

Until the close of the 16th century the Portuguese maintained their trading monopoly. Feeble efforts on the part of other European Powers, including the English, were made to obtain a footing on the Coast, but the Portuguese were never seriously challenged until the advent of the Dutch in 1595.

At first the Portuguese were interested in obtaining gold, ivory and spices, but with the opening up of the New World there came a demand for cheap labour for the plantations. So commenced the transatlantic slave trade which, until its decline and abolition in the 19th century, shaped the history of the Gold Coast.

The main results of the slave trade were two-fold. First, in order to feed the slaves awaiting shipment and their captors, the Portuguese were obliged to introduce food plants and to teach an improved method of agriculture to a people hitherto largely dependent for food on the natural resources of the forest and sea. Secondly, the lucrative nature of the trade attracted the attention of other European nations besides the Portuguese to the possibilities of the Gold Coast.

The Dutch, appearing on the Coast in 1595, rapidly undermined the domination of the Portuguese. In 1637 they captured Elmina and in 1642 the Portuguese abandoned all their possessions in the Gold Coast to the newcomers. Other European Powers, including the English, followed and, fighting amongst themselves, scrambled for a footing on the Coast. By 1750, however, the year in which the African Company of Merchants was formed and subsidised by the British Government to the extent of £13,000 per annum, all had withdrawn except the Dutch with their headquarters at Elmina, the Danes with their headquarters at Christiansborg and the English with their headquarters at Cape Coast Castle.

In 1821 the British Government first assumed the control of the British settlements in the Gold Coast, and the African Company of Merchants was dissolved, its possessions being vested in the Crown and placed under the Government of Sierra Leone. Seven years later, however, the British Government, after considering complete withdrawal from the Coast, entrusted the government of the settlements in the Gold Coast to a Committee of London Merchants. In 1843, however, the 1821 arrangement was restored in consequence of suspected slave trading, which had been abolished by Great Britain in 1833. The year 1850 saw the separation of the British forts and settlements of the Gold Coast from Sierra Leone, the cession of the Danish possessions to Britain and the creation by Letters Patent of Executive and Legislative Councils, but in 1866 government from Sierra Leone was resumed.

In 1872 the Dutch withdrew from the Gold Coast, handing over their possessions to the British. Two years later, after Sir Garnet Wolseley's successful Ashanti campaign, came the final separation from Sierra Leone. A new Charter was issued dated the 24th of July, 1874, separating Her Majesty's Settlements on the Gold Coast and Lagos from the Government of Sierra Leone and constituting them into one Colony under the style of the Gold Coast Colony under a Governor-in-Chief with an Administrator at Lagos.

In 1886 all the settlements and territories belonging to Her Majesty on the Gold Coast were, by Letters Patent dated the 13th January, formed into a distinct Colony. Lagos being separated therefrom. This territory, however, did not include all the areas under British protection and had no specified boundaries. To regularise the position, therefore, these protected areas were annexed to His Majesty's Dominions and declared to be part and parcel of His Majesty's Gold Coast Colony by Order-in-Council of the 26th September, 1901. The boundaries of the Colony thus constituted were defined by Order-in-Council dated the 22nd October, 1906, and have since remained unchanged.

On 22nd June, 1939, the Gold Coast experienced a severe earthquake, which did much damage to buildings, especially in Accra, and caused about 150 casualties, including 16 deaths.

Constitution.

The constitutional instruments providing for the Government of the Colony are the Letters Patent and Royal Instructions dated the 23rd of May, 1925, the former of which create the office of Governor and Commander-in-Chief, and constitute an Executive Council consisting of such persons as shall be directed by Instructions under the Royal Sign Manual and Signet and a Legislative Council constituted in such manner and consisting of the Governor and such persons as are directed by the Order in Council of the 8th of April, 1925, and known as the Gold Coast Colony (Legislative Council) Order in Council, 1925. Royal Instructions were also passed on the 23rd May, 1925, with later amendments, directing that the Executive Council should consist of the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney-General, the Financial Secretary, the Director of Medical Services, and the Secretary of Native Affairs (these to be styled
ex-officio Members) and such other persons as were at the date of the coming into operation of the aforesaid Letters Patent Members of the Council or as may be appointed under the Royal Sign Manual and Signet or as the Governor may appoint in pursuance of Instructions through a Secretary of State. The Legislative Council contains an elective element and consists of the Governor as President together with fifteen Official Members and fourteen Unofficial Members. The Official Members are the five senior Members of the Executive Council, the Comptroller of Customs, the Director of Public Works, the General Manager of the Railway, the Commissioners of the Eastern, Central and Western Provinces, as ex-officio Members, and such other officials not exceeding two at any one time as the Governor may appoint. The Unofficial Members are six Provincial Members, namely three for the Eastern Province, two for the Central Province, and one for the Western Province; three Municipal Members, namely, one each for the towns of Accra, Cape Coast and Sekondi respectively; one European Mercantile Member, one European Mining Member and three Europeans nominated by the Governor. The Provincial Members are Head Chiefs elected by the Provincial Councils of the said Provinces; the Municipal Members are elected by the electorate of the said towns; the Mercantile Member is elected by the Chambers of Commerce; and the Mining Member is elected by the Chamber of Mines.

Municipal Government.

The Town Councils Ordinance has been extended to the towns of Accra, Sekondi and Cape Coast. The town of Kumasi in Ashanti is under the control of a statutory corporation styled the Kumasi Public Health Board.

Law and Justice.

The Law of the Colony is the Common Law, the doctrines of equity, and the statutes of general application in force in England, on the 24th July, 1874, modified by a large number of local Ordinances passed since that date. The criminal law was codified in 1892, and the civil and criminal procedure are regulated by the Courts Ordinance and the Criminal Procedure Code, both enacted in 1935.

Justice is administered by the Supreme Court which is presided over by the Chief Justice and seven Puisne Judges. Divisional Courts of the Supreme Court are held in different parts of the colony. There are also a large number of inferior Courts with limited criminal and civil jurisdiction, some of which are presided over by District Magistrates and District and Provincial Commissioners. The Supreme Court has an original civil and criminal jurisdiction, and also decides appeals from the inferior courts. Appeals from the Divisional Courts and from the Courts of the Provincial Commissioners in land cases lie to the West African Court of Appeal.

Native customary law is administered in all the Courts in so far as it is not incompatible either directly or by necessary implication with any Ordinance for the time being in force, and not repugnant to natural justice, equity and good conscience.

Native Tribunals, presided over by Paramount or Divisional Chiefs, are established throughout the Colony, with criminal and civil jurisdiction in cases where the parties are subject thereto. Such jurisdiction has been much increased by recent legislation, and certain judicial powers have also been conferred upon State Councils and Provincial Councils.

There is an appeal from the Tribunal of a Divisional Chief to that of a Paramount Chief, and from a Paramount Chief's Tribunal to the District Commissioner's Court: but, where a title to land is in dispute, the appeal lies from the Paramount Chief's Tribunal to the Provincial Commissioner's Court.

Prisons.

There are four central and 20 local prisons. The central prisons are at Accra, Sekondi, Kumasi and Tamale.

The following industries are carried on successfully: Carpentry, cabinet-making, tailoring, mat and basket making, boot and shoe making, weaving, farming, string and rope making, brick-making, brush and broom making.

The Mark System, whereby the remission of one quarter of a sentence can be earned by hard work and good conduct, is applied to all persons sentenced to periods of imprisonment of over one month.

A Boys' Industrial Home under the control of the Salvation Army has been established at Kintampo.

Climate.

The climate although hot and damp, is cooler than that of most tropical countries situated in similar latitudes. The most adverse feature relative to the residence of Europeans is the very high relative humidity which only falls below 80% in the dry districts of the north and east during the Harmattan. The average mean temperature is from 77°—84°, being greatest in the north and east and lowest in the forest area. Extremes of shade temperature have been 107° in Tamale and 45° at Kumasi.

The rainfall varies with the configuration of the country, being greatest in the south-western corner around Axim and least in the far north and coastal belt. There is the double wet season common to Tropical Africa corresponding to the double passage of the sun, the major rains in the south being in May and June and the lesser rains in September and October. In the Northern Territories intensity of the rains is reversed and in the extreme north the passages of the sun are so near to one another in date that there is only one wet season.

The most pronounced season is the Harmattan characterised by a dry north-east wind which blows from the Sahara carrying clouds of red dust during the period of cessation of the south-west monsoon. This occurs at the period when the sun is passing southwards to the spring solstice during January and February, and the feature is the terrific desiccation of the atmosphere. A drop of 63 per cent. of relative humidity has been experienced in 24 hours with a result that papers and books curl up and the skin appears parched and dry. The daily range of temperature is more than doubled and the period is very trying to Europeans. For the year 1938, the rainfall and the average figures for maximum shade temperature, mean daily temperature and mean R.H. at 9.0 a.m. are given in the table below:

| Station | Rainfall inches | Shade Max. °F. | Mean Temp. °F. | Mean R.H. at 9 a.m. |
|---------|----------------|---------------|----------------|-------------------|
| Accra   | 23-57          | 84-1          | 79-0           | 76-2              |
| Takoradi| 45-91          | 85-3          | 78-9           | 80-4              |
| Kumasi  | 61-78          | 88-9          | 79-6           | 84-3              |
| Tamale  | 43-24          | 94-3          | 90-0           | 61-6              |

Mail and Steamship Services.

Elder Dempster Lines Limited are under contract with the Postmaster-General for conveyance of His Majesty's mails between Liverpool and the West and South-West coasts of Africa.
Regular sailings are maintained between Liverpool and West African ports for mails, passengers and cargo. There are also regular sailings from London.

A mail vessel of this Company leaves Liverpool for Calabar and Port Harcourt alternately once a fortnight. The Port Harcourt service calls at Madeira, Las Palmas, Bathurst, Freetown, Takoradi, Accra, Lagos and Port Harcourt. The Calabar service calls at Madeira, Freetown, Monrovia, Takoradi, Accra, Lagos, Suellaba, Calabar and Victoria; the usual length of voyage being thirteen days to Gold Coast ports. The mails vessels are connected at Lagos with a Branch Service calling at Warri.

Cargo vessels are despatched from Liverpool once every three weeks, calling at the principal Gold Coast ports; length of voyage about 21 days.

At present, cargo vessels are despatched from New York every month and call at the principal Gold Coast ports both outwards and homewards, the average length of voyage being 28 days.

Cargo vessels are despatched about the 25th of each month from Montreal for Freetown, Cape Town, Port Elizabeth, East London, Durban, Lourenco Marques and Beira, and they are scheduled to arrive at Cape Town on the 22nd of the succeeding month. This service occasionally calls at Takoradi on the homeward voyage.

Elder Dempster Lines Limited are directly represented in the main Gold Coast ports.

Mail steamers of Chargeurs Reunis Line, sailing from Bordeaux, call once a month at Accra on the homeward voyage if inducement offers. Cargo steamers call at regular intervals outwards and homewards. Local Agents:—The United Africa Company Limited, Lighterage Department, and Resident Agent.

Passenger and cargo steamers of associated companies Compagnie Generale de Navigation a Vapeur & Cie Fraissinet, sailing from Marseilles call regularly outwards and homewards at Gold Coast ports. Local Agents:—The United Africa Company Limited, Lighterage Department, and Resident Agent.

Cargo steamers of the American West African Line are despatched monthly from New York and from the Gulf of Mexico at intervals of 4 months, and call at the principal Gold Coast ports. These sailings are augmented during the Colony's cocoa season. The voyage from New York is 28 days. Calls are also made at all ports to Loanda as inducement offers, including the Belgian Congo. Local Agents:—The United Africa Company Limited, Lighterage Department.

Cargo steamers of the United Africa Company Limited, with limited accommodation for passengers, are despatched from Liverpool and the Continent. There are about two sailings per month, and steamers call outwards at all Gold Coast ports, and call homewards as inducement offers. Local Agents:—The United Africa Company Limited, Lighterage Department.

Cargo steamers of the Société Navale de l'Ouest sail monthly from Antwerp, Havre and Bordeaux and call at the principal Gold Coast ports as inducement offers. They call homewards at Gold Coast ports as inducement offers. Local Agents:—The United Africa Company Limited, Lighterage Department.

Cargo steamers of the Lloyd Triestino, formerly Navigazione Libera Triestina Line, sailing from Trieste, Venice, Naples, Genoa and Marseilles call at the principal Gold Coast ports on the outward voyage once every month. These steamers now go as far as Matadi and call at Accra and/or Takoradi homeward. Local Agents:—The United Africa Company Limited, Lighterage Department.

The Holland West-Afrika Lijn N.V., Amstelvian, maintains mail, passenger and freight services from Amsterdam, Antwerp and Bordeaux to the West African ports by three sailings monthly.

The mail and passenger steamers are despatched monthly from Amsterdam via Antwerp, Bordeaux (through tickets from United Kingdom), reaching Takoradi in 13 days from Bordeaux. After calling at Accra they proceed down the coast as far as Togoland, Dahomey, Nigeria, Fernando Po and the Cameroons.

They call homewards at Accra and Takoradi and reach Europe via Monrovia, Freetown, Dakar and the Canary Islands within 14 days. All these steamers call at Le Havre homewards, and passengers for the United Kingdom are transhipped to Southampton without additional charge.

Cargo steamers of this line are despatched twice every month from Amsterdam, Antwerp and Bordeaux. These boats have limited passenger accommodation. The length of voyage to Le Havre is 16, and to Holland 17 days.

Local Agents:—Holland West-Afrika Lijn N.V., P.O. Box 269, Accra and Holland West-Afrika Lijn N.V., P.O. Box 18, Takoradi.

Cargo steamers of John Holt and Company (Liverpool) Ltd. with modern cargo liners with up-to-date accommodation for 12 passengers maintain a regular service from Liverpool to Gold Coast ports. Takoradi, Accra and Keta are served fortnightly, sailings from Liverpool being every other Friday.

Homeward bound, a regular fortnightly call is made at Takoradi, and, if sufficient inducement offers, at other ports on the Gold Coast, for United Kingdom and north Continental destinations.

This Company's steamers carry exclusively its own cargo and passengers.

Local Agents:—John Holt and Company (Liverpool) Limited, Accra.

Aviation.

Air services are maintained between Lagos, Accra and Takoradi by Elders Colonial Airways in connection with the Imperial Airways service between Lagos and Khartoum; the French air service between Dakar and Pointe Noire also calls at Accra.

The aerodromes for landplanes are at Accra and Takoradi; there is also a seaplane landing area in Takoradi Harbour.

Harbours.

The Gold Coast was for many years at a great disadvantage in that it possessed no deep-water harbour. Jetties protected by breakwaters were built at Sekondi and Accra, for the use of surf boats and lighters.

Sekondi has been replaced by a deep-water harbour a few miles to the westward at Takoradi which was opened to shipping in 1928. The harbour is 220 acres in extent and provides moorings for six ocean-going ships, whilst three can be berthed alongside the main wharf, which contains a large manganese-loading transporter. There is a fourth berth for local coal traffic.

Internal Communications.

Railway communication consists of a main line running from Takoradi to Kumasi, thence to Accra, a distance of 366 miles, with branches, Sekondi to Takoradi Junction (3 miles), Tarkwa to Prestea (18 miles), Aboso to Cinnamon Bippo (4 miles), and Huni Valley to Kade (99 miles). The Main Line and Branches are 3 ft. 6 ins. gauge. There is a branch line, Accra to Weija (Accra Water Works), 10 miles in length which is 2 ft. 6 ins. gauge.
The railway gross earnings for the year 1938-39 were £1,192,062., and the working expenditure, including provision of £262,470. for renewals, and also pensions, was £764,411. (Transport Section excluded). The total number of miles open for traffic on the 31st March, 1939, was 500, and the capital cost £8,686,238.

The mileage of all weather motor roads, exclusive of town roads, maintained by the Public Works Department is 2,288 miles as follows:

| Tarred or Bitumen Surface | Gravel Miles | Total Miles |
|---------------------------|--------------|-------------|
| Accra District            | 70½          | 167         | 237½        |
| Newawam District          | 57½          | 114¼        | 172¼        |
| Koforidua District        | 70½          | 112¼        | 182¼        |
| Ketu District             | 6             | —           | 6           |
| Winneba District          | 75¾           | 157¼        | 233¼        |
| Cape Coast District       | 101¼          | 97          | 198¼        |
| Takoradi District         | 33½           | 130¼        | 164¼        |
| Dunkwa District           | 2             | 256¼        | 258¼        |
| Ashanti                   | 156¼          | 420         | 576¼        |
| Northern Territories      | —             | 258¼        | 258¼        |

In addition to the mileage maintained by the Public Works Department, there are some 2,700 miles of dry season road maintained by the Political Administration with funds provided by Government. The Chiefs also maintain a considerable mileage of earth roads.

These roads are all motorable in the dry season and have opened up the country in all directions to motor traffic. Ferries have been installed and bridges built wherever necessary.

The Black Volta rises in the hills near Soukoursaba, and the White Volta rises near Quahigouga, both in the French province of Haute Volta. These two rivers converge some 280 miles from the sea on the Ashanti-Northern Territories border and become the River Volta which flows into the sea at Ada. This river is navigable for light draught launches as far as Akuse, and, with the exception of the Krachi rapids, can be used for canoe traffic during certain seasons of the year as far as Yeji. The Ankobra River is navigable for many months of the year by surf-boats and light draught launches for a distance of 50 miles. The Tano, connected with Half Assini by the main lagoon, and by a tramway, three miles in length, is navigable for light draught launches and canoes as far as Tanoso, a distance of about 60 miles.

Rapids at Sutri prevent this river being further utilised.

The ferry over the River Volta at Senchi is capable of taking the largest cars and lorries, and is now worked by an endless chain driven by a petrol motor placed on the ferry boat. A similar ferry is in operation over the same river at Veji.

The Government maintains a Motor Transport Service, which operates in centres where vehicles provided by private enterprise are unobtainable or more costly than a Government-owned fleet. The headquarters is at Accra, with branches at Kumasi and Tamale. The department also handles Government cargo and officials' baggage and stores arriving by sea and arranges the coastwise shipping of Government personnel and stores between ports within the Colony.

In addition to their departmental duties, the officers of the Transport Department assist in carrying out the provisions of the Motor Traffic Ordinance by acting as Testing and Certifying Officers.

Medical Facilities.

Medical Officers are stationed at all the principal centres of the Colony and its dependencies. Many of these officers travel in their districts and give treatment in village dispensaries of which there are now twenty-eight.

There are six European Hospitals in the Gold Coast, four in the Colony, one in Ashanti and one in the Northern Territories.

There are also thirty-two African Hospitals; twenty in the Colony, six in the Northern Territories, four in Ashanti and two in the British Sphere of Togoland.

The Gold Coast Hospital was opened at Accra in October, 1923, and does excellent work. It continues to grow in popularity with the African community. It contains 219 beds and twenty-four cots, which are nearly always occupied. In connection with this hospital the construction of a Contagious Diseases Block containing 50 beds was begun in 1938 and is now completed.

In the year 1938 the hospital dealt with 17,903 out- and 3,989 in-patients and 801 major operations were performed. At the African Hospital, Kumasi, 9,625 out- and 3,068 in-patients were treated during the same period. 18,346 in-patients and 227,562 out-patients were dealt with by the other African Hospitals in the Gold Coast during 1938.

An up-to-date maternity hospital in charge of a woman medical officer, now containing forty-five beds and twenty-six cots, was opened in 1938 at Korle Bu in the immediate vicinity of the Gold Coast Hospital and is highly appreciated. There was a total of 583 deliveries during the year 1938. The training of midwives is carried out here. A new Red Cross ante-natal ward of 12 beds was opened in April, 1935.

The construction of a new African Hospital at Cape Coast to accommodate 80 patients was commenced in 1938 and is now completed. At Sekondi a new African Hospital to accommodate a similar number of patients is in course of erection. A new ward is under construction in connection with the African Hospital at Koforidua. Additions, alterations and improvements in respect of the European Hospital, Accra, were carried out during 1939.

In addition to the above there is a Laboratory Services Branch consisting of a central Medical Research Institute situated at Accra close to the Gold Coast Hospital. Valuable work in research, clinical pathology, etc., is carried on by this Branch.

In the Northern Territories a Trypanosomiasis Campaign was inaugurated in 1937. The campaign is being carried out under the direction of a Senior Medical Officer working in conjunction with an entomologist. Much progress has been made in both survey work and treatment.

Health.

The Health Branch of the Medical Department is controlled by a Deputy Director of Health Service who is responsible to the Director of Medical Services. Medical Officers of Health are stationed in five of the most important towns in the Colony and in Kumasi, in Ashanti and Tamale in the Northern Territories.

All Medical Officers are charged with public health duties in their respective districts and in the more populous areas are assisted by European Sanitary Superintendents.

Public health activities are extended into rural areas as far as the available staff will allow. As close a watch as possible is kept on the smaller towns and villages along the main trade routes. Every encouragement is given to the people to lay-out their villages on open lines and improve the type of houses erected.
Particular stress is laid on the protection and improvement of village water supplies. Progress as regards rural sanitation is shown in the Northern Territories and to some extent in Ashanti. It is hoped that a return to prosperity and new legislation will shortly give rise to improvement in the Colony.

For the year 1938 a birth rate of 32.1 and a death rate of 22.1 were returned. The infantile mortality rate for 1938 was 102. The maternal mortality rate for 1938 per 1,000 live births was 15.8. All the above rates are crude rates.

Infant welfare and ante-natal welfare centres, in charge of women medical officers, have been established at Kumasi and Accra. At the Accra and Kumasi centres wards are attached.

At Koforidua the centre is under the charge of a European woman medical officer of the Gold Coast Branch of the British Red Cross Society. The centres at Cape Coast and Sekondi are controlled by European and African Nursing Sisters of the same society working under the Medical Officer of Health.

Posts and Telegraphs.

Mails between the Gold Coast and other British Colonies on the West Coast, and the United Kingdom, are exchanged fortnightly by vessels of Elder Dempster Lines, Ltd., and at frequent irregular intervals by vessels of other lines. Mails are exchanged overland with Togoland under French Mandate and with the French Ivory Coast; and direct mails from Hamburg are received fortnightly.

Air mails to and from all parts of the world are exchanged once weekly by Imperial Airways, via Lagos and Khartoum, and once weekly by French Aéromaritime, via Dakar.

There are 77 Post Offices and 203 Postal Agencies, the distribution being effected principally by rail and motor. When this is impossible a runner service is employed. The rate for letters (1 oz.) within the Empire is 1d., elsewhere 3d.

There are 4,773 miles of Telegraph Line Wire serving all the principal centres. The rate is 6d. for 9 words, and 1d. per word in excess of 9.

There are 13,375 miles of telephone wire including overhead and underground cable circuits in use which link up 261 Exchanges and Call Offices throughout the country.

Any passenger or cargo boat entering Takoradi Harbour may be connected to the mainland telephone service and telegraph and phonogram system.

There are about 2,691 telephones, including those in Government Offices, in operation, and extensions to the system are in progress.

Parcel Post despatches are exchanged direct with the United Kingdom and with other British Colonies in West Africa, and the United States of America. Parcels for other countries are forwarded through the United Kingdom. The C.O.D. service from the United Kingdom is extensive.

British Imperial Postal Orders are issued and paid, and an inland and foreign Money Order system is in operation. A Telegraph Money Order Service with the United Kingdom is also available.

A coastal radio-telegraph station at Takoradi transmits radio-telegrams at 9d. per word.

Cable and Wireless Limited own and operate the cable station at Accra whence their submarine cables connect the Colony with countries all over the world.

Education.

Education in the Gold Coast has hitherto largely been, and is now to a still greater extent, aided and controlled by Government, and all schools are open to inspection by officers of the Education Department. All teachers are registered, and are paid according to an incrementally graded salary scale.

Apart from a large number of non-aided primary schools, there are twenty-four Government schools and 427 Government-assisted mission and other schools in the Colony and its dependencies. The latest figures (for 1938) show that these Government and assisted primary schools have an enrolment of 59,636 pupils, of whom 14,803 are girls. The largest educational body working in these territories is the Presbyterian Church with 105 assisted schools, followed next in order of size by the Ewe Presbyterian Church with 83 assisted schools.

Native Administration schools, the expenditure on which is defrayed partly by Government and partly by the Native Administrations, have been established in recent years in the Northern Territories at Bawku, Lawra, Wa, Gambaga, Sandema, Kpembe, Yendi and Zuarungu. The total number of pupils in these schools in 1938 was 569, of whom 24 were girls.

In addition to the Government primary schools there are the Government Technical School at Takoradi and three Government Middle Boarding Schools at Kibi, Assuntai and Mampong (Ashanti) respectively. The Technical School gives a secondary-vocational course (practical and theoretical) in building construction, carpentry and joinery and mechanical and electrical engineering and the Middle Boarding Schools provide an elementary education with a pre-vocational bias.

Schools for the training of subordinate technical staff are conducted by the Medical, Agriculture, Animal Health, Survey, Posts and Telegraphs and Railway Departments.

Teachers intended for Government service or for the smaller educational organisations are enrolled in the teacher-training department of the Prince of Wales' College, Achimota. Others are trained at Wesley College, Kumasi, the Presbyterian Training College, Akropong, Akwapim, and the Roman Catholic Training College, Cape Coast. These three colleges receive Government grant.

The Scottish, English Church, Methodist, Roman Catholic and Basel Missions train women teachers at various centres which receive Government grant on terms similar to those for the colleges for men.

There are three residential Secondary Schools at Cape Coast, conducted by the Methodist, English Church, and Roman Catholic Missions respectively. The Roman Catholic, English Church, Methodist, Scottish and Basel Missions each have primary Girls' Boarding Schools in which both a literary and a domestic training is given. Government has three schools for girls with a similar curriculum.

The Prince of Wales' School and College at Achimota, near Accra, was opened in January, 1927. It is a co-educational boarding institution open to pupils of any religion or race. It provides a complete course of instruction from the kindergarten stage up to the standard of the University of London Intermediate Arts and Science Examinations and the B.Sa. Engineering Examinations. (Intermediate and Degree Examinations of the University of London are regularly held in the Gold Coast by the Education Department).

Achimota College is an independent institution administered by a council consisting partly of elected and partly of nominated members. It receives a substantial annual subsidy from Government.

Currency and Banking.

Prior to 1912 and 1913 the currency consisted chiefly of British gold (comparatively rare), silver and copper. In 1912, subsidiary nickel-bronze coins
THE GOLD COAST.

(1d., ½d. and 1½d. pieces) were introduced, and in 1913 a special silver currency common to all the British West African Colonies of the same weight and fineness as the corresponding British coins. The coins issued are 2s., 1s., 6d. and 3d. pieces. Owing to the great increase in the demand for currency and the difficulties in obtaining adequate supplies, it was found necessary in 1915 to make British Treasury Notes legal tender, and in 1916 special West African Currency Notes were introduced. 20s. and 10s. Notes are the only values now in circulation, 5s., 2s. and 1s. Notes having been withdrawn. In 1920 owing to the rapid disappearance of silver coins, an alloy coinage was introduced of the same denominations as the silver coins and silver has now practically been withdrawn from circulation. In 1939, an improved type of alloy coin of the 2s., 1s. and 6d. denominations and a new threepenny-piece of nickel-bronze were introduced. The special West Africa silver and alloy currency and the West African Currency Notes are under the management of the West African Currency Board and are secured by sterling securities held by the Board. Current British gold and silver coins, West Africa Currency silver and alloy coins, West African Currency Notes, and West Africa nickel-bronze coins are all legal tender.

The Bank of British West Africa, Limited, opened at Accra on the 1st January, 1897, and now has branches at all the principal business centres in the Colony.

The Colonial Bank, now Barclays Bank (Dominion, Colonial and Overseas), began business at Accra in 1917, and branches have now been opened at other centres. Both Banks have a savings department. In 1888, a Government Savings Bank was established which is now under Post Office management. On 31st March, 1939, the amount to the credit of depositors was £75,843.

Accounts are kept in sterling.

Population.

The first attempt to take a census was made in 1891, which, however, covered the Colony only. Since then a census has been made at ten-year intervals, viz.—1901, 1911, 1921 and 1931. Except in 1901, the whole of Ashanti and the Northern Territories have been included. In a country such as the Gold Coast, imperfect communications and lack of education make the holding of a complete census a matter of great difficulty and even now the figures cannot be considered absolutely accurate.

At the mid-year 1938, the population of the Gold Coast was estimated at 3,786,659, as follows:

| Resident Africans | Resident Non-Africans | Mari-time |
|-------------------|----------------------|-----------|
| Colony            | 1,860,845            | 2,304     | 172       |
| Ashanti           | 702,695              | 624       | —         |
| Northern Territories | 852,792          | 107       | —         |
| Togoland (under British Mandate) | 370,327          | 43        | —         |

The estimated African population of some of the chief towns was as follows:

- Accra: 74,937
- Koforidua: 14,274
- Cape Coast: 19,689
- Sekondi: 22,356
- Kumasi: 44,627
- Tamale: 19,495
- Ho: 3,599

Industries, Trade and Customs.

Quantities and values of the following exports for 1938 were:

| Quantity | Value |
|----------|-------|
| Cocoa    | 263,229 tons | 4,450,899 |
| Gold     | 677,480 fine ozs. | 4,841,633 |
| Manganese Ore | 324,207 tons | 907,972 |
| Diamonds | 1,296,763 carats | 549,027 |
| Timber   | 698,599 cubic feet | 77,026 |
| Palm Kernels | 5,193 tons | 39,631 |
| Rubber, raw | 1,194,888 lbs. | 29,295 |
| Copra    | 993 tons | 9,186 |

Lime Products:

| Lime juice | 541,154 gallons | 27,078 |
| Lime oil   | 808 gallons | 3,618 |
| Other kinds | 195 tons | 1,006 |
| Palm Oil   | 647 tons | 9,873 |

Hides (Cattle):

| untanned | 2,450 cwt. | 6,346 |
| Coffee, raw | 48,230 lbs. | 760 |
| Bananas   | 90,073 bunches | 7,210 |

†Kola Nuts | 12,134 cental of 100 lbs. | 5,286 |

The first in value of imports in 1938 was machinery (all kinds), provisions (all kinds), cotton manufactured piece goods, iron and steel manufactures, railway vehicles and parts, tobacco (all kinds), artificial silk piece goods, apparel (all kinds), motor spirit, motor cars (including commercial vehicles, omnibuses, ambulances, tractors, chassis and private cars, including cabs), fuel oil, electrical and telegraphic apparatus (all kinds), cement, explosives—dynamite and cognate substances, coal, produce bags and sacks, medicines, rubber tyres for vehicles, beer and ale (including stout and porter), potable spirits, soap (all kinds) and tin manufactures.

The following tables give particulars of the total values and the percentages of (1) Import and (2) Export (including re-export) trade of the Gold Coast according to countries for the year 1938:

### (1) IMPORTS.

| Countries of Origin | Value | Per cent. of Total |
|---------------------|-------|--------------------|
| BRITISH EMPIRE      |       |                    |
| United Kingdom      | 6,448,796 | 64-05               |
| British West Africa | 179,574 | 1-73               |
| Other British Possessions | 344,228 | 3-32               |
| Total British Empire | 7,172,598 | 69-10              |
| FOREIGN COUNTRIES   |       |                    |
| United States of America | 768,514 | 7-40                |
| Germany             | 453,802 | 4-37               |
| French Togoland     | 416,357 | 4-01               |
| Dutch West India Islands | 292,780 | 2-82               |
| Japan               | 281,887 | 2-72               |
| Netherlands         | 162,464 | 1-56               |
| Czechoslovakia      | 143,752 | 1-38               |
| Italy               | 124,162 | 1-20               |
| Belgium             | 109,103 | 1-06               |
| Switzerland         | 60,349 | 0-58               |
| France              | 55,642 | 0-54               |
| Denmark (including Faroe Islands) | 53,624 | 0-52               |
| Canary Islands (North Africa) | 49,711 | 0-48               |
| Argentina           | 44,189 | 0-43               |
| Other Foreign Countries | 191,389 | 1-84               |
| Total Foreign Countries | 3,207,725 | 30-90              |
| GRAND TOTAL         | 10,380,323 | 100                |

† Exclusive of 79,745 cental of 100 lb. Kola Nuts, valued at £83,048l., exported from the Northern Territories (including the Northern Section of Togoland under British Mandate).
(2) EXPORTS (including Re-exports).

| Countries of Destination | Value   | Percent of Total |
|--------------------------|---------|------------------|
| **BRITISH EMPIRE**       |         |                  |
| United Kingdom           | £11,558,859 | 74·93            |
| British West Africa      | 51,830  | 0·34             |
| Other British Possessions| 265,331 | 1·65             |
| **Total British Empire** | £11,866,020 | 76·92            |
| **FOREIGN COUNTRIES**    |         |                  |
| United States of America | 1,347,945 | 8·73             |
| Germany                  | 792,678  | 5·14             |
| Netherlands              | 594,672  | 3·86             |
| Norway                   | 285,492  | 1·86             |
| French Togoland          | 145,244  | 0·95             |
| Czechoslovakia           | 61,835   | 0·40             |
| Sweden                   | 59,396   | 0·38             |
| Ivory Coast              | 57,345   | 0·37             |
| Belgium                  | 52,686   | 0·34             |
| Italy                    | 48,356   | 0·31             |
| Denmark (including Faroe Islands) | 36,835 | 0·24             |
| France                   | 23,151   | 0·15             |
| Poland (including Danzig) | 21,386   | 0·14             |
| Other Foreign Countries  | 32,455   | 0·21             |
| **Total Foreign Countries** | 3,559,476 | 23·08            |
| **GRAND TOTAL**          | £15,425,496 | 100              |

The Customs Tariff is non-preferential. The principal cotton manufacturers, artificial silk piece goods, alcoholic liquors, tobacco, timber, certain articles of apparel, soap, petrol and kerosene, and a number of other articles are liable to specific duties.

All other articles, unless specifically exempted, are liable to an ad valorem duty of 15 per cent. except glass and glassware and meat—beef and pork (wet salted) in kegs or barrels which are dutiable at 10 per cent. and newsprint which is dutiable at 7½ per cent.

The following articles of Japanese origin pay additional duties, viz.: cement, corrugated iron sheets, paints and colours, paint oils, polishes and varnishes, cardigans, jerseys and pullovers, shirts, and singlets.

ASHANTI.

Ashanti is inhabited by a large number of confederated tribes, the principal of which are the Mampongs, Juabens, Bekwais, Adansis, Kokofus, Nautas, Offinsus, Kumawus, Ejissus and Agonas. Each tribe has its own Head Chief, but from time immemorial the King of Kumasi was recognised as the King paramount of the Confederation.

In 1873 the King of Ashanti invaded the British Protectorate with a large army, and reached Elmina, where he was entirely defeated by the British forces under Colonel (afterwards Sir) Francis Festing. Later in the year Captain (afterwards Sir) John Glover was sent to the eastern districts of the Protectorate to organise the tribes in that quarter, for a flank movement against the Ashanti territory. At the same time Sir Garnet (afterwards Viscount) Wolseley was despatched to the Gold Coast, with British and West Indian troops, native levies, and some seamen and marines, to operate against the Ashantis, starting from Cape Coast. On the 31st of January, 1874, he came into general engagement with the enemy at Amoasul, where he drove them from their position after desperate resistance. The next four days were employed continuously in fighting, until, on the evening of the 4th of February, the British force entered Kumasi. The King had fled to the bush. A few days later Sir John Glover also reached Kumasi. On the 13th, messengers sent by the King concluded a peace with Sir Garnet Wolseley at Fomena, which was afterwards signed with a pencil cross by King Kofi. By the Treaty of Fomena, the King of Ashanti renounced all claims on the claims on the Protectorate, promised to protest traders, to abandon human sacrifices, and to pay an indemnity of 60,000 ozs. of gold.

In 1894 Prempeh, who was then King of Kumasi, and had successfully fought against the Nkoranans, who had revolted against his rule, threatened to attack the Atebubus. This attack was averted by the despatch of a force under Sir Francis Scott, and an ultimatum was then sent to Prempeh warning him not to enter British territory, and suggesting that he should acquiesce in the establishment of a Residency at Kumasi. No definite reply to this suggestion could be obtained, and a military expedition accordingly proceeded to Kumasi, to compel compliance with the demands of Her Majesty's Government. The expedition, under the command of Sir Francis Scott, entered Kumasi without resistance, January, 1896. Prempeh made submission, but, failing to comply with the terms dictated, was brought to the coast as a political prisoner and lodged in Elmina Castle, whence he was eventually deported to the Seychelles. A Resident was at the same time installed at Kumasi, and thus commenced an entirely new departure in the relations of the Gold Coast Colony with Ashanti.

In 1900 the Governor visited Kumasi, and was there besieged by the Ashantis, the town being closely invested. Provisions ran short, and a part of the garrison, with the Governor, cut their way out; the rest were relieved by Colonel (afterwards Sir J.) Willcocks, commanding the Ashanti Field Force, on 16th July, after severe fighting. The Ashantis were subsequently thoroughly routed at Abosu.

An Order of the King in Council, dated September 26th, 1901, defined the boundaries of Ashanti, annexed it to His Majesty's Dominions, and provided for its administration under the Governor of the Gold Coast. By a subsequent Order in Council of the 22nd of October, 1906, the boundaries between the Colony and Ashanti, and between Ashanti and the Northern Territories were re-adjusted and defined, with due regard to tribal lands and natural features.

Ashanti is administered by a Chief Commissioner with an Assistant Chief Commissioner as relieving Officer.

The dependency is divided into the following Districts, each under a District Commissioner with limited powers of jurisdiction:

- Ashanti Akim District.
- Bekwai District.
- Kumasi District.
- Mampong District.
- Obuasi District.
- Sunyani District.
- Wenchi District.

The jurisdiction of the Supreme Court was extended to Ashanti in 1935. The former Circuit Judge is now a Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court of which a Divisional Court has been established at Kumasi. A District Magistrate exercises limited jurisdiction in the town of Kumasi.

The peaceful relations which, under the auspices of the Gold Coast Government, have existed for many years now between the Ashantis and the neighbouring tribes have been signified by not infrequent petitions emanating from the Gold Coast Colony as well as from Ashanti for the return from exile of Prempeh,
the former Chief of Kumasi. The confidence felt by the Government of the Gold Coast in the loyalty of the Ashanti people led to the granting of this request in 1924, and to approval being given in 1936 of his election by his people as Omanhene or Head Chief of the Kumasi tribe.

Prempeh died on the 12th May, 1931 and was succeeded by his nephew (now Sir) Osei Agyeman Prempeh II as Omanhene of Kumasi on the 7th July, 1931, who, on the restoration of the Ashanti Confederacy in 1935, assumed the title of Asantehene.

THE NORTHERN TERRITORIES.

In 1897 the territories to the north of Ashanti were constituted a separate district with the title of "The Northern Territories," and placed in charge of a Commissioner, and a grant-in-aid of the expenditure in the Northern Territories was voted by Parliament.

Major H. P. Northcott was appointed Commissioner and Commandant of these territories, with the rank of Lieutenant-Colonel. The negotiations between the British and French Governments for the settlement of territorial questions in West Africa, which had been suspended in 1896, were resumed in October, 1897; and on 14th June, 1898, after a period of considerable tension in consequence of the proximity of the British and French forces in the disputed territories, a Convention was signed at Paris with a proviso that it should be ratified within six (subsequently extended to twelve) months. By this Convention the boundary between the Gold Coast and the French Colony of the Ivory Coast, which had only been settled in 1889, as far as the 9th parallel of north latitude, was continued northwards along the course of the Black Volta River to the 11th parallel, and it was then drawn along the 11th parallel with a deflection to the north in the neighbourhood of Mamprusi, until it met the Franco-German boundary of 1897. The effect of the Anglo-French Convention of 14th June, 1898, was to leave Bona, Lobi, and Moshi to France, while Dagati, Wa, Mamprusi, and the southern portion of Grunshi were included in the British sphere.

On 14th November, 1899, an agreement was concluded with Germany for the partition of the "neutral zone." This partition assigned Salaga to Great Britain, and Yendi to Germany, and to the north of the zone gave Mamprusi to the former and Chakoa to the latter.

Survey operations were undertaken by Anglo-French and Anglo-German Commissions during 1901-2, for the delimitation of those portions of the boundaries which had not yet been settled.

By the demarcation on the ground of the Anglo-German boundary between the Trans-Volta District and the adjoining Colony of Togo; of the Anglo-German boundary north of the 9th parallel of north latitude; and of the Anglo-French boundary along the 11th parallel of north latitude, all the frontiers of the Colony, Ashanti and the Northern Territories have now been exactly defined.

Provision was made for the administration of the Northern Territories under the Gold Coast Government by an Order of the King in Council of 26th September, 1901.

The Northern Territories are administered by a Chief Commissioner with an Assistant Chief Commissioner as Relieving Officer. They are divided into the Mamprusi, Wa, Lawra-Tumu, Krachi, Dagomba and Gonja Districts, with headquarters at Gambaga, Wa, Lawra, Krachi, Yendi and Salaga. The headquarters of the Protectorate is at Tamale in the Dagomba District, 237 miles north of Kumasi. The Krachi District and portions of the Gonja and Dagomba districts, including Yendi, the Dagomba District headquarters are within the Northern Section of Togoland under British Mandate.

By Order in Council, of the 22nd of October, 1906, the boundaries between the Northern Territories and Ashanti were re-adjusted and defined.

An important step was taken with regard to the Government of this Protectorate by replacing, with effect from the 1st of January, 1907, the former semi-military administration by a staff of Civil District and Assistant District Commissioners, and by establishing new stations. Simultaneously, the 2nd Battalion of the Gold Coast Regiment was disbanded and a force of armed constabulary substituted therefor. In 1929, the Northern Territories Constabulary was disbanded and their duties taken over by the Gold Coast Police.

The jurisdiction of the Supreme Court was extended to the Northern Territories in 1935. The former Circuit Judge, Ashanti, who exercised in the N.T. powers similar to those which he exercised in Ashanti is now a Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court.

TOGOLAND UNDER BRITISH MANDATE.

The former German protectorate of Togoland is situated on the Gulf of Guinea, bounded on the east by Dahomey and on the west by the Gold Coast and its Protectorates. The actual coast-line lies between 1° 45' and 1° 14' W. longitude, the frontiers, however, especially on the west, opening out considerably. The total area is about 36,500 square miles.

Until 1884-85 the majority of the tribes along the littoral and its immediate hinterland, also those adjoining the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast regarded themselves as being under the suzerainty of Great Britain, but by agreements made with the French on the 24th December, 1885, and with the British on the 14th and 28th July, 1886, when provisional frontiers were fixed, German influence was formally recognized by those Powers. Subsequent agreements dated the 23rd July, 1897, and the 14th November, 1899, between Germany and the Governments of France and Great Britain respectively defined the northern frontiers of Togoland.

Immediately upon the outbreak of war between Great Britain and Germany Togoland was invaded by the Gold Coast forces. On the 6th August, 1914, Captain E. B. Barker entered the capital, Lome, under a flag of truce and on the following day that town and the hinterland for a distance of 120 kilometres from the sea were surrendered. On the 8th August Anoecho (Petit Popo) was occupied by the French. Operations on a larger scale commenced on the 11th August when Temporary Lieutenant-Colonel F. C. Bryant landed at Lome. After engagements at Agbelufoe and Chra River on the 16th and 24th August respectively the enemy retired on the great wireless station at Kamina, which they destroyed. On the 26th August the Acting-Governor surrendered the Colony unconditionally.

Pourparlers then took place between Sir Hugh Clifford, governor of the Gold Coast, and M. Noufflard, governor of Dahomey, as the result of which an agreement, subsequently ratified by the governments concerned, was drawn up. Under
this agreement Togoland was provisionally divided into British and French spheres. To the British were allotted the western administrative areas of Lome and Lomeland, Misahoe, Kete-Krachi and Yendi, and to the French Anecho, Atakpame, Sokode and Sansanwe Mangu.

By proclamation dated the 30th September, 1914, civil courts were established under the presidency of political officers seconded from the Gold Coast, appeal lying from the district courts to that of a senior political officer. In the absence of a local criminal code, that of the Gold Coast was introduced as a basis of procedure.

In June, 1915, the office of senior political officer was merged in that of the senior military commander, without prejudice, however, to the civil nature of the court concerned.

Boundary adjustments with the French took place in 1920 in accordance with an agreement signed by Lord Milner and M. Simon on 10th July, 1919, Lome and the whole of the coast were given over to the French, and the British received additional territory in the interior. The area of the British sphere is 13,041 square miles.

In October, 1921, the Council of the League of Nations approved in principle the arrangements made between the British and French Governments for the division of Togoland in accordance with the agreement of 10th July, 1919, and the application to the territories of the Mandate system; and on 20th July, 1922, after a delay due to negotiations between the United States Government and the Mandatory Powers, the Council confirmed the mandates and defined their terms.

Togoland under British Mandate is now administered under the provisions of the British Sphere of Togoland Order in Council, 1923, which was issued on the 11th of October, 1923.

Under this instrument, the British Sphere is divided into the Northern Section and the Southern Section. The Northern Section is administered as if it formed part of the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast, and the Southern Section is administered as if it formed part of the Eastern Province of the Gold Coast Colony. The Chief Commissioner's Court of the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast exercises jurisdiction in the Northern Section; and the Supreme Court of the Gold Coast Colony exercises the jurisdiction in the Southern Section.

Subject to the terms of the Mandate, the law for the time being in force in the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast is the law in force in the Northern Section, and the law for the time being in force in the Gold Coast Colony is the law in force in the Southern Section. The Governor of the Gold Coast Colony is empowered to enact Ordinances with respect to the British Sphere as a whole, or with respect to either Section thereof separately. Togoland under British Mandate is not distinguished from the Gold Coast in the statistical returns, but it is beyond question that the revenue which it brings to the Gold Coast is inconsiderable compared with the money expended upon it. It contains no part of the old German railway system, which retains most of the export and import trade of the Southern and richest Section. The towns of Ho and Kpandu are joined to the Gold Coast road system by a road which meets the Volta River at Senchi where there is a power ferry. There is also a direct road from Yendi to Tamale.

† For text of the British mandate, see Cmd. 1794.

### Gold Coast Statistics

#### Finances (excluding Railway)

| Year | Revenue |
|------|---------|
| 1929-30 | £3,397,324 |
| 1930-31 | £3,499,418 |
| 1931-32 | £2,284,299 |
| 1932-33 | £2,670,786 |
| 1933-34 | £2,684,925 |
| 1934-35 | £2,778,065 |
| 1935-36 | £3,268,378 |
| 1936-37 | £3,774,746 |
| 1937-38 | £3,791,673 |
| 1938-39 | £3,780,288 |

#### Expenditure

| Year | Total |
|------|-------|
| 1929-30 | £3,852,023 |
| 1930-31 | £3,744,010 |
| 1931-32 | £2,823,752 |
| 1932-33 | £2,673,482 |
| 1933-34 | £2,313,096 |
| 1934-35 | £2,564,039 |
| 1935-36 | £3,128,606 |
| 1936-37 | £3,916,992 |
| 1937-38 | £3,636,569 |
| 1938-39 | £3,489,346 |

#### Tonnage

| Year | Total |
|------|-------|
| 1929-30 | 5,540,387 |
| 1930-31 | 5,267,048 |
| 1931-32 | 4,475,430 |
| 1932-33 | 3,547,305 |
| 1933-34 | 3,846,625 |
| 1934-35 | 4,279,268 |
| 1935-36 | 4,710,836 |
| 1936-37 | 4,858,728 |
| 1937-38 | 5,223,665 |
| 1938-39 | 4,816,667 |

#### Imports

| Year | From U.K. | From Colonies | Elsewhere | Total |
|------|-----------|--------------|-----------|-------|
| 1929 | £4,757,712 | £398,770 | £4,295,899 | £10,082,381 |
| 1930 | £4,395,108 | £296,834 | £2,611,828 | £9,533,770 |
| 1931 | £2,512,260 | £196,950 | £2,094,634 | £4,803,874 |
| 1932 | £3,273,593 | £226,684 | £2,104,942 | £5,605,219 |
| 1933 | £3,083,438 | £278,535 | £2,201,381 | £5,563,354 |
| 1934 | £2,698,494 | £327,301 | £1,823,005 | £4,848,800 |
| 1935 | £4,533,883 | £527,905 | £2,895,192 | £7,956,780 |
| 1936 | £7,499,788 | £527,301 | £3,629,630 | £11,656,719 |
| 1937 | £12,593,772 | £783,200 | £5,851,391 | £19,228,363 |
| 1938 | £6,648,796 | £523,802 | £3,207,725 | £10,380,323 |

#### Exports (including Re-exports)

| Year | To U.K. | To Colonies | Elsewhere | Total |
|------|---------|-------------|-----------|-------|
| 1929 | £3,615,835 | £416,506 | £8,645,375 | £12,677,716 |
| 1930 | £4,386,843 | £428,324 | £4,672,221 | £11,287,388 |
| 1931 | £4,477,289 | £198,724 | £4,624,607 | £9,300,620 |
| 1932 | £3,887,173 | £136,870 | £4,324,836 | £8,348,879 |
| 1933 | £3,640,146 | £221,192 | £4,187,146 | £8,048,484 |
| 1934 | £4,547,173 | £186,859 | £3,383,424 | £8,117,456 |
| 1935 | £5,670,398 | £268,339 | £4,032,796 | £9,971,533 |
| 1936 | £6,058,958 | £365,136 | £6,212,805 | £12,636,899 |
| 1937 | £7,669,341 | £513,870 | £8,034,982 | £16,218,193 |
| 1938 | £11,558,859 | £307,161 | £3,559,476 | £15,425,496 |

Customs receipts, 1936—£2,811,341; 1937—£3,398,540; 1938—£2,426,832.

Governors of the Gold Coast (since 1900).

1900. Sir Matthew Nathan, K.C.M.G.
1904. Sir John P. Rodger, K.C.M.G.
1910. J. J. Thorburn, Esq., C.M.G.
1912. Sir Hugh C. Clifford, K.C.M.G.
1919. Brigadier-General Sir F. Gordon Guggisberg, K.C.M.G., D.S.O., R.E.
1927. Sir Alexander Ransford Slater, K.C.M.G., C.B.E.
1932. Sir Thomas Shenton W. Thomas, K.C.M.G., O.B.E.
1934. Sir A. W. Hodson, K.C.M.G.

Executive Council.

The Governor, President.
The Colonial Secretary.
The Chief Commissioner of Ashanti.
The Chief Commissioner of the Northern Territories.
The Attorney-General.
The Financial Secretary.
The Director of Medical Services.
The Secretary for Native Affairs.

The Legislative Council is composed of the same members as the Executive Council, with the addition of the following Members:

* These figures refer to calendar years.
Ex-Officio Members:
The Comptroller of Customs.
The Director of Public Works.
The General Manager of the Railway.
The Commissioner of the Western Province.
The Commissioner of the Central Province.
The Commissioner of the Eastern Province.
The Director of Education.
The Director of Agriculture.

Two Nominated Official Members.
Unofficial Members. 6 Provincial Members, Elected,
Togbi Sri II., O.B.E. (Awame Fia of Awume);
Nana Sir Ofori Atta, K.B.E. (Omanhene of Akim Abusawu);
Nana Taibon Darku IX (Omanhene of Asin Atandase);
Nana Hima Deyi XII (Omanhene of Upper Dixcove);
Nene Nuer Ologo V (Konor of Yilo Krobo);
Nana Amanfi III (Omanhene of Asen).

Elected Mercantile Member, T. Sutherland.
Nominated Mining Member, Lt.-Col. H. W. M. Bamford, C.B.E., M.C.

Nominated Unofficial Members, G. B. Kirk, F. A. B. Johnston, R. P. H. Davies.
Elected Municipal Members, K. A. Korah, O.B.E., G. J. Christian, A. W. Kojo Thompson.

Clerk of Executive Council, A. D. W. Skinner.
Clerk of Legislative Council, H. H. Malm, M.B.E.

† CIVIL ESTABLISHMENT.

Governor's Office.
Governor, Sir A. W. Hodson, K.C.M.G., 4,500l., plus 1,500l. duty allowance.

Private Secretary and Aide-de-Camp (400l.), E. R. Edmott (seconded from Administrative Service).
Chief Clerk (vacant), 300l. by 12l. to 396l.

Colonial Secretary's Office.
Colonial Secretary, G. E. London, C.M.G., 2,000l.
Financial Secretary, G. N. Farquhar, 1,500l.
Under-Secretary, R. O. Ramage, 1,600l.
Senior Assistant Colonial Secretaries, L. W. Wood, Capt. V. J. Lynch, M.O., 1,200l.
Assistant Colonial Secretaries, Capt. G. M. Puckridge, L. A. Northroft, C. D. Todd, W. W. Barnhill, G. N. N. Nunn, A. D. W. Skinner, H. Cooper, 400l., 400l. by 50l. to 500l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 630l.; 690l. by 30l. to 840l.; 880l. by 40l. to 1,000l.; J. Welsing and H. H. Malm, M.B.E., 335l. by 15l. to 360l. by 25l. to 600l. by 36l. to 780l.

† In the following particulars of the Civil Establishment, the revised scales of salary attached to the various offices are shown in every case, although in many instances existing holders continue to draw salary on the old scales, viz:

Scale A. For those appointed before 1st October, 1923; 450l. for three years, then 510l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

For those appointed on or after 1st October, 1923; 400l., 415l., 430l., 450l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

Scale B. For those appointed before 1st October, 1923; 500l. for three years, then 570l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 960l. with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

For those appointed on or after 1st October, 1923; 450l. for three years, then 510l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 960l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

Scale C. For those appointed before 1st October, 1923; 480l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

For those appointed on or after 1st October, 1923; 480l. for three years, then 510l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

Secretariat Assistant, A. W. Clerk, 335l. by 15l. to 350l. by 25l. to 600l.

Superintendents of Branches, E. W. Adjaye and S. A. Laryea, 300l. by 12l. to 396l.

Secretary for Native Affairs' Office.
Secretary for Native Affairs, H. W. Thomas, 1,500l.
Assistant Secretary for Native Affairs (vacant), 335l. by 15l. to 360l. by 25l. to 600l. by 36l. to 780l.

Administrative Service.
Chief Commissioner of Ashanti, Major H. C. Stevenson, C.M.G., O.B.E., M.C., 1,800l.
Chief Commissioner, Northern Territories, W. J. A. Jones, C.M.G., 1,700l.
Provincial Commissioners, A. C. Duncan-Johnstone, E. O. Rake, A. F. E. Fieldgate, Paymaster-Comdr. S. W. Saxton, R.N. (retired), 1,400l.; one vacancy.
Deputy Provincial Commissioners, T. R. O. Mangin, Lt.-Col. G. H. Gibbs, M.C., 1,200l.
District Commissioners and Assistant District Commissioners, L. W. Judd, Major W. R. Gosling, O.B.E., Paymaster-Lieut. G. P. H. Rewes, C. S. Masser, C. O. Butler, E. A. Burner, Capt. St. J. R. Eyre Smith, M.C., G. Hall, Capt. H. P. Dixon, Capt. P. W. Rutherford, M.C., R. W. Sanderson, J. E. Miller, G. E. C. Wisdom, E. N. Jones, O. J. Collison, M.C., Capt. J. A. Armstrong, Capt. H. G. Ardron, Capt. V. W. Bratton, W. H. Beeton, G. F. Mackay, H. V. Wimshurst, D. A. Sutherland, R. W. Woolley, J. K. G. Syme, W. B. Smith, Capt. L. J. Mothersill, D. N. Walker, R. G. Cooper, Hon. H. W. Amherst, H. S. Stovold, H. E. Devaux, R. G. Syme, W. A. S. Cole, A. C. Spooner, A. C. Russell, R. E. Walker, W. V. Fuller, A. J. Lovelock, E. W. Ellison, W. A. R. Walker, A. McCauley, M. M. Miln, K. C. Tours, G. Hadow, E. R. Edmott, C. D. A. Pullan, A. F. Kerr, C. G. R. Amory, V. H. K. Littlewood, G. B. Cartland, R. K. Talbot, L. A. Britton, G. E. Sinclair, D. J. Parkinson, P. J. H. Hornsby, A. T. Kerr, T. A. Mead, A. Campbell, H. J. P. Crawford, M. G. Hewson, H. J. N. Chapman, N. Ross, H. B. V. Bruton, R. E. Crabb, D. H. Canham, J. Duncan, H. M. Roemmle, T. Hindle, D. M. Allen, J. W. Chalmers, A. A. Hughes, I. S. Warren, A. W. Davies, E. R. Packham, M. D. L. Gass, J. R. Roper, M. E. Thompson, L. L. le P. Gardner, J. H. F. MacGiffin, P. L. Lindsell, S. A. Fox, 400l.; 400l. by 50l. to 500l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 630l.; 690l. by 30l. to 840l.; 880l. by 40l. to 1,000l.

Judicial Department.
Chief Justice, Sir P. B. Petrides, Kt., 2,300l.
Puisne Judges, R. Strother-Stewart, C. E. W. Bannerman, O.B.E., A. N. Dooley, T. D. H. Bruce, J. T. T. Turbett, K.C. (Sierra Leone), L. E. V. McCarthy, M. Fuad Ziai Bey (one at 1,400l. and 280l. duty allowance; six at 1,600l.).

Chief Registrar and Sheriff (vacant), 1,050l.

District Magistrates, Comdr. G. E. Cooper, R.N. (retired), S. O. Quashie-Idun, W. H. Irwin, A. Casely Hayford, T. F. Goodman, P. N. Dalton, L. G. Lingley, A. D. Scholes, R. M. H. Rodwell (one at 720l. by 40l. to 960l., plus seniority allowance of 72l. per annum; six at 630l., 630l., 660l.; 690l. by 30l. to 840l. by 40l. to 1,000l.; two at 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 840l.).

Law Officers' Department.
Attorney-General, H. W. B. Blackall, K.C., 1,700l.
Solicitor-General (vacant), 1,250l.
Crown Counsel, T. A. Brown, A. J. Ainley, 720l. by 40l. to 960l., S. E. Ellis, A. Ridealgh, 630l.; 630l.; 690l.; 690l. by 30l. to 840l. by 40l. to 1,000l.
Printing Department.

Government Printer, L. H. Hughes, 680l. by 30l. to 840l.
Superintendents, Government Press, G. Worthington, L. Perry, G. B. Pound, 540l. by 15l. to 600l.
Assistant Superintendent, Government Press, R. Martin, 420l. by 15l. to 600l.
Printer's Engineer, E. R. W. Wynne, 420l. by 15l. to 600l.

Accountant-General's Department.

Accountant-General, C. J. Hodgins, M.C., 1,300l.
Chief Assistant Accountant-General, B. M. Tatham, 1,060l.
Senior Accountant, R. A. Brown, 750l. by 30l. to 840l. by 40l. to 920l.
Assistant Accountants, J. H. Anderson, W. C. Watson, R. C. Gibbons, F. H. R. Paddick, F. W. Sadler and W. F. Hutchison, one at 400l. by 15l. to 430l., 450l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l.; four at 400l., 400l., 450l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 720l., and one at 338l., 338l., 375l. by 25l. to 600l.
Office Superintendent, A. I. Anteson, 300l. by 12l. to 384l.; 400l. by 20l. to 600l.
Sub-Assistant Accountant, Grade I, E. A. Lartey, 300l. by 12l. to 384l., 400l. by 20l. to 600l.

Audit Department.

Auditor, H. V. Cusack, 1,250l.
Deputy Auditor, P. H. Jennings, 1,000l.
Senior Assistant Auditors, F. H. Sibley, F. R. Collins, 840l. by 40l. to 920l.
Assistant Auditors, N. W. Sabine, M. A. Collins, D. G. Britton, I. V. G. Mackay, A.C.A., P. B. Tucker, A.C.A., 400l., 400l., 450l., 500l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 830l.; 690l. by 30l. to 810l.
Chief Audit Clerk, R. M. Johnson, 335l. by 15l. to 350l. by 25l. to 600l. by 36l. to 780l.

Customs Department.

Comptroller, Capt. A. Durham MacKenzie, 1,350l.
Deputy Comptroller, Lt.-Col. H. W. R. Chandler, M.C., 1,100l.
Assistant Comptroller, W. Ewan Conway, 1,050l.
Senior Collectors, G. J. Freeman, J. McLagan, J. Milne, I.S.O., Capt. C. L. d'Albani, A. G. Simon, F. C. Lander, 840l. by 40l. to 920l.; A. S. Dadzie, 335l. by 15l. to 350l. by 25l. to 600l. by 36l. to 780l.
Collectors, C. G. Packwood, H. G. Gowen, A. G. Davidson, A. G. Johnson, Capt. R. P. M. T. Barrett, M. S. Murphy, A. D. W. Allen, Major H. J. Le Mare, C. M. Bayfield, A. G. N. Jones, E. G. Gulliver, R. W. H. Barnett, 400l.; 400l.; 450l. by 25l. to 600l.; 660l. by 30l. to 810l.; Daku Mante, 335l. by 15l. to 350l. by 25l. to 600l. by 36l. to 780l.

Railway and Harbour Department.

General Manager and Harbour Authority, F. V. Macdonald, A.M.I.C.E., 1,700l.
Assistant General Manager, F. J. Bush, 750l. by 30l. to 840l. by 40l. to 920l.
Office Assistant, R. S. Cunningham, A.M.Inst.T., 400l.; 415l.; 430l.; 450l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 720l.
Chief Engineer, R. J. M. Leakey, B.A. (Cantab.), 1,200l.
Senior Engineers, J. W. Moran, O.B.E., B.A., A.M.I.C.E.I.; P. A. Oppenheim, M.M., A.M.I.C.E., 880l. by 40l. to 1,000l.
Assistant Engineers, H. W. G. Drummond, D. J. Stott, A.M.I.C.E.; S. Grunberg, B.So. (Eng.); J. P. C. Bell, A.M.I.C.E. (one vacancy), 475l. for 2 years; 500l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 840l.
Chief Mechanical Engineer, C. R. Turner, R.D., A.M.I.Mech.E., Chartered Mechanical Engineer, 1,200l.
Senior Locomotive Superintendent, E. R. Masters, A.M.I.Mech.E., Chartered Mechanical Engineer, 880l. by 40l. to 1,000l.
Locomotive Superintendents, W. Venner, A.M.I. Mech.E., Chartered Mechanical Engineer, A.M.I. Loco.E. (one vacancy), 475l. for 2 years; 500l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 840l.
Works Manager, A. T. G. Power, A.M.I.Mech.E., Chartered Mechanical Engineer, 880l. by 40l. to 1,000l.
Assistant Works Managers, F. C. Steward, F. J. Hayward, 475l. for 2 years; 500l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 840l.
Boiler Inspector, G. A. Nork, 600l.
Mechanical Foreman of Wharves, W. K. Fairclough, 600l.
Chief Electrical Engineer, A. H. Fossey, 880l. by 40l. to 1,000l.
Assistant Electrical Engineers, A. R. Townsend, D.H. Skinner, E. T. H. Wilkinson, 475l. for 2 years; 500l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 660l.; 690l. by 30l. to 840l.
African Assistant Electrical Engineer, E. A. Sackey, A.M.I.E.E., Chartered Electrical Engineer, 400l. by 25l. to 600l.
Traffic Manager, A. J. F. Bunning, 1,100l.
Senior Traffic Superintendents, R. Creighton, W. Dickinson (one vacancy), 750l. by 30l. to 840l. by 40l. to 920l.
Assistant Traffic Superintendents, N. Blackall, G. W. Staig, J. A. Smith, R. J. Hudman, 400l.; 400l.; 450l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 720l.
Chief Accountant, G. Henderson, M.C., M.M., 1,100l.
Staff Accountants, C. O. Parker, W. A. Hutchinson, 750l. by 30l. to 840l. by 40l. to 920l.
Assistant Accountants, E. Oldham, D. V. Summers, H. G. McElroy, R. A. Braysher, J. O. Frappell, N. T. Wilmot, (one vacancy), 400l.; 400l.; 450l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 720l.; W. Mensah, 335l. by 15l. to 350l. by 25l. to 600l. by 36l. to 780l.
Chief Storekeeper, J. H. Pryer, 750l. by 30l. to 840l. by 40l. to 920l.
Assistant Chief Storekeeper, T. H. Taylor, 750l. by 30l. to 810l.
Assistant Storekeepers, W. Galloway, W. Ritchie, (one vacancy), 400l.; 400l.; 450l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 720l.

Takoradi Harbour.

Marine Superintendent, Commandant G. A. C. Sharp, D.S.C., R.N. (ret.), 840l. by 40l. to 920l.
Senior Pilot, A. E. Adams; Pilota, A. E. Gillard, (one vacancy), 400l.; 415l.; 430l.; 450l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 720l.

Posts and Telegraphs Department.

Postmaster-General, S. Pope, O.B.E., 1,300l.
Deputy Postmaster-General, J. O. Reilly, 1,100l.
Chief Accountant, E. A. Martin, 750l. by 30l. to 840l. by 40l. to 920l.
Accountants, C. S. Godson, C. G. Folwell, 400l.; 400l.; 450l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 720l.
Senior Assistant Controllers of Posts, J. Rothwell, L. P. Wallis, A. B. Cawthra, 840l. by 40l. to 920l.
Assistant Controllers of Posts, J. S. Page, W. Emmett, H. R. Senior, L. C. Saville, C. D. Brokensha, N. Smith, H. Metcalf, 400l. for 2 years; 450l. by 25l. to 600l.; 660l. by 30l. to 810l.
Superintendent of Stores, Capt. R. A. M. Hastings, M.C., 400l.; 400l.; 450l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 720l.

Assistant Superintendent of Stores, F. C. Dickenson, 400l.; 400l.; 450l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 720l.

Assistant Superintendent of Stores (Gold Coast), J. E. Koppoe, 335l. by 15l. to 350l. by 25l. to 600l.

Accountant (Gold Coast), M. Lampley, J. P. Baddoo, 335l. by 15l. to 350l. by 25l. to 600l.

Assistant Controller of Posts (Gold Coast), J. B. Blankson, 335l. by 15l. to 350l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 780l.

Assistant Controller of Posts (Gold Coast), J. F. Smith, A. H. Gurney, 300l. by 20l. to 400l. by 25l. to 600l.

Telephone Exchange Superintendents, N. P. H. James, C. Entwistle, E. C. Grimmett and B. M. Cockwill, 400l. by 15l. to 430l.; 450l. by 25l. to 600l.

Engineering Branch.

Engineer-in-Chief, S. P. Greer, 1,100l.

Senior Engineer, A. J. Paul, F. Paltridge, W. J. H. Piper, 880l. by 40l. to 1,000l.

Engineers, J. Macklin, J. G. Greer, E. T. K. Cann, J. R. F. Robertson, T. D. Leech, T. F. Hall, S. S. Kellaway, 475l. for 2 years; 500l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 840l.

Chief Mechanician Instructor, C. R. Barsted, 400l.; 400l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 720l.

Wireless Engineer (vacant), 450l.; 450l.; 475l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 630l.; 690l. by 30l. to 720l.

Medical Department.

Director of Medical Services, D. Duff, C.M.G., M.D., B.Ch., B.A.O., D.P.H., Barrister-at-Law, 1,800l.

Deputy Director of Medical Service, W. M. Howells, 1,800l.

Assistant Directors of Medical Service, W. J. McClinton, C. B. Jennings, 1,400l.

Senior Specialist, A. M. MacRae, A. M. Gillespie, 1,500l.

Specialist, 1,300l. (vacant).

Senior Medical Officers, N. A. D. Sharp, J. R. Forde, E. G. A. Don, V. E. Critton, G. F. T. Saunders, W. Nelson, 1,200l.

Medical Officers (Colonial Medical Service), F. McKernan, E. M. Fraser, F. M. Purcell, P. L. Gray, A. J. Hawe, F. S. Paterson, S. G. Harrison, G. M. Minifie, G. L. Alexander, A. McPherson, A. Walker, S. Batchelor, M.C., W. S. Thomas, G. C. Edwards, M. K. Lawlor, A. D. Cust, H. J. Birmingham, J. A. K. Fitzgerald, E. R. Gauld, F. J. Sladen, G. Watt, P. C. Cosgrove, S. W. Cooper, H. G. H. Waters, D. R. Griffith, A. J. Murray, M.C., D. S. Johnston, H. C. Foster, A. F. Fowler, J. D. Reid, J. S. McGregor, W. R. Phillips, V. J. G. McGregor, B. B. Waddy, A. H. Chenard de la Giraudais, J. S. Minett, J. R. S. Innes, S. C. Wright, L. Goodman, L. G. Eddey, 660l. for 3 years; 690l. by 30l. to 840l.; 880l. by 40l. to 1,000l.

Alienist Officer, F. McLagan, 660l. for 3 years; 690l. by 30l. to 840l.; 880l. by 40l. to 1,000l., and staff pay of 150l.

Dental Surgeon, W. H. Donald, 660l. for 3 years; 690l. by 30l. to 840l.; 880l. by 40l. to 1,000l.

Medical Officers (Gold Coast), F. X. Ribeiro, C. J. S. O. Taylor, Miss A. Y. Savage, J. E. O. Amegatcher, J. E. Armah, N. Q. Hesse, C. H. Bannerman, E. W. Q. Bannerman, M. A. Hayford, 500l. to 720l.

Junior Medical Officers (Gold Coast), I. J. Amorin, P. M. J. Phillipe, J. E. Hutton-Mills, 400l.

Radiographers, E. A. H. Barham, E. Dalton, 400l. by 15l. to 430l.; 450l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 720l.

Analytical Chemists, F. R. Johnson, G. R. Howat, 550l. for 2 years; 575l.; 600l. by 30l. to 840l.

Medical Storekeeper, R. C. Broderick, 400l.; 400l.; 450l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 720l.

Medical Stock Verifier, G. J. D. Beckingham, 400l. by 12l. to 500l.

Secretary, Gold Coast Hospital, L. C. Whitcombe, 400l. by 15l. to 430l.; 450l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 720l.

Dispensers' Instructor, W. Dunlin, 500l. by 12l. to 580l.

Matron, European Nursing Staff, A. E. MacMaster, M.B.E., 700l.

Senior Nursing Sisters, M. Rigney, O.B.E., J. M. Garvey, E. Cordiner, 500l. by 20l. to 600l. by 30l. to 630l.

Health Branch.

Deputy Director of Health Service, J. M. Mackay, M.C., M.B., Ch.B. (Glasgow), D.P.H. (London), 1,600l.

Senior Health Officers, D. Lennox and H. P. Fowler, 1,200l. (one vacancy).

Medical Officers of Health, W. D. Whamond, V. E. Whitman, J. H. Dobbin, S. A. Maclean, H. S. Townsend, H. C. Armstrong, R. Ramsay, K. C. Mackenzie, 660l. for 3 years; 690l. by 30l. to 840l.; 880l. by 40l. to 1,000l. and staff pay of 150l. (two vacancies).

Women Medical Officers, M. C. Chappel, B. A. S. Russell, E. Cardwell, 660l. for 3 years; 690l. by 30l. to 840l.; 880l. by 40l. to 1,000l., and staff pay of 150l.

Chief Sanitary Superintendent, P. P. Horn, 600l. by 30l. to 720l.

Medical Research Institute.

Deputy Director of Laboratory Service (in abeyance).

Senior Pathologist, G. Robinson, 1,200l.

Pathologist, R. D. Reid and W. Thomson, 660l. for 3 years; 690l. by 30l. to 840l.; 880l. by 40l. to 1,000l.

Entomologist, K. R. S. Morris, 450l.; 450l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 630l.; 690l. by 30l. to 840l. by 40l. to 1,000l.

Animal Health Department.

Director of Veterinary Services, Captain J. L. Stewart, M.C., B.Sc., M.R.C.V.S., 1,100l.

Senior Veterinary Officers, W. C. L. Orr, B.Sc., M.R.C.V.S.; *A. Fulton, M.R.C.V.S.; *840l. by 40l. to 1,000l.

Veterinary Officers, J. McDonald, M.R.C.V.S.; *S. Simpson, M.R.C.V.S.; *D. E. Faulkner, B.V.Sc., M.R.C.V.S.; R. H. A. Merlen, M.R.C.V.S.; one vacancy; 630l.; 660l. by 30l. to 840l.; *(On old scale 600l. by 30l. to 720l.; by 40l. to 920l. and 72l. seniority allowance from 720l.).

Laboratory Assistant, W. H. Heynes, 500l. by 25l. to 600l.

Education Department.

Director of Education, G. Power, 1,500l.

Deputy Director of Education, V. A. Tettey, 900l.

Senior Inspectors of Schools, W. J. D. Wadley, M. G. Smith, H. H. Stafford, T. Burton (one vacancy), 880l. by 40l. to 1,000l.

Inspectors of Schools, J. B. Flynn, W. R. Allen, K. J. Dickens, J. Wilson, M. F. G. Wentworth, Miss E. M. Allen, W. M. A. Jones, Miss Esther Applevard, C. S. Thompson, 400l.; 400l. by 50l. to 500l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 630l.; 690l. by 30l. to 840l.; J. A. Addo, N. C. Lawrence, E. Tagoe, (one vacancy), 400l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 780l.
Government Technical School—
Principal, T. T. Gilbert, 1,000l.

Masters, G. Sutton, G. F. L. Howarth, L. A. Woodroffe, 400l.; 400l.; 450l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 720l.

Middle Boarding Schools—
Principals, Capt. H. G. Hendrie, T. M. Ritchie and one vacancy at 400l.; 400l.; 450l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 720l.

Government Schools—
Headmistresses—Miss M. K. Quartey-Papafio, 400l. by 25l. to 600l. and Miss Ruby Quartey-Papafio, 300l. by 12l. to 360l.

Headmasters, John Avansu and H. M. Grant, 300l. by 12l. to 360l.

Chief Clerk, R. A. Clerk, 300l. by 12l. to 360l.

Department of Agriculture.
Headquarters Staff.
Director, H. B. Waters, B.A. (Oxon.), 1,400l.
Deputy Director, A. C. Miles, 1,100l.
Assistant Director (in abeyance).
Accountant and Office Superintendent (vacant), 400l.; 400l.; 450l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 720l.

Agricultural Staff.
Senior Agricultural Superintendents, James Steele, M.C., N.D.A., N.D.D., A.I.C.T.A., W. H. Beckett, M.A., Dip. Agric., B.Sc. Econ. (Hons.), A.I.C.T.A., B. T. Steemson, B.A., E. M. Cook, Dip. Agric., J. E. Symond, A.I.C.T.A., J. M. Wingate, A.I.C.T.A., H. Nicholas, B.A., Dip. Agric., F. A. Robb, B.Sc., N.D.A., two vacancies, 880l. by 40l. 1,000l.

Agricultural Superintendents, L. J. Packham, B.Sc., A.R.C.S.I., N.D.A., J. D. Broatch, B.Sc., C. L. Skidmore, B.Sc., Dip. Agric., A.I.C.T.A., J. T. H. Stein, B.Sc., J. M. Ward, N.D.A., N.D.D., Dip. Agric., C.D.A., C. W. Lynn, Dip. Agric., A.I.C.T.A., J. Wright, B.Sc. (Hons.), A.I.C.T.A., A. Jones, B.Sc. (Hons.), A.I.C.T.A., A. E. Moss, B.Sc., Dip. Agric., A.I.C.T.A., E. L. Hay, B.Sc., A.I.C.T.A., R. J. W. Grimm, C.D.A., A. D. T. Montagu, D.P.S.A. (Hons.), F. R. B. Mullan, M.A., E. A. Walters, B. de L. Inness, B.Sc. (Hons.), A.I.C.T.A., M. Akenhead, B.Sc., Dip. Agric., F. L. Squibbs, J. Gordon, B.Sc., B.Agric. (Hons.), A.I.C.T.A., G. R. Spurrell, B.A., J. K. Cox, R.D.D. (S.A.), two vacancies, 450l.; 450l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 630l.; 690l. by 30l. to 840l.

African Agricultural Superintendents, E. W. A. B. Sam, B.Sc., 400l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 780l.; J. O. Torto, B.Sc., A.I.C.T.A., J. Cole, B.Sc., 375l.; 375l. by 25l. to 525l.; 575l. by 25l. to 700l.

Senior Inspectors of Plants and Produce, W. R. Hudson, E. D. Hill, S. T. Phillips, 750l. by 30l. to 810l.

Inspectors of Plants and Produce, H. E. Green, R. J. T. Hooke, J. H. Bowen, Dip. Agric., R. W. Donkin, L. L. de Verteuil, D.I.C.T.A., R. J. Benstead, N.D.A., K. E. Cowan, Dip. Hort., W. B. Mason, Dip. Agric., J. R. O. Humphries, B.A. (Hons.), Dip. Agric., L. D. Branch, R. Patterson, B.Sc., W. A. Hughes, B.Sc. (Hons.), G. P. C. Lewis, B.A. Agric., F. A. Leeds, Dip. Agric., Isaac Silson, N.D.A., 400l.; 400l.; 450l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 720l.

African Inspectors of Plants and Produce, A. N. de Heer, R.N., A. E. Chisholm, B.Sc., A.I.C.T.A., 330l.; 330l.; 375l. by 25l. to 600l.

Laboratory Staff.
Senior Specialists and Specialists, G. S. Cotterell, A.R.C.S., D.I.C., T. L. Williams, B.A., Dip. Agric., A.I.C.T.A., 880l. by 40l. to 1,000l., M. Greenwood, M.Sc., E. F. S. Shepherd, B.Sc., A. F. Posnette, B.A. (Hons.), 450l.; 450l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 630l.; 690l. by 30l. to 840l.

Forestry Department.
Conservator of Forests, Capt. R. C. Marshall, 1,400l.
Divisional Conservator of Forests, H. W. Moor, 1,050l.
Senior Assistant Conservators of Forests, J. A. Willa, L. C. Rowney, C. Vigne, D. Stevenson, A. J. Cox, G. M. Tolmie, W. T. S. Brown, 880l. by 40l. to 1,000l.

Assistant Conservators of Forests, F. E. Hughes, A. Foggie, I. A. Beveridge, F. G. Harper, D. Kinloch, G. S. Cansdale, W. E. M. Logan, A. C. Russell, C. J. Taylor, R. M. Harley, 450l.; 450l.; 475l. by 25l. to 600l.; 630l.; 690l. by 30l. to 840l.; H. A. Douglas, D. C. Duff, D. A. Lane, W. A. Miller, W. B. Collins, M. T. Horwood, J. M. Ramsay, D. M. M. Kellas, 425l.; 425l.; 475l.; 475l. by 25l. to 600l.; 630l.; 690l. by 30l. to 840l.

Mines Department.
Chief Inspector of Mines, F. B. Higgins, A.C.S.M., 1,400l.
Senior Inspector of Mines (vacant).

Inspectors of Mines, C. W. F. Bond, A.C.S.M., Assoc.Inst.M.M., D. M. McNair, M.B.E., A.H.W.C., F. J. Ryeland, A.R.S.M., Assoc.Inst.M.M., 475l. for 2 years; 500l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 840l.

Inspectors of Machinery, T. G. Blofeld, M.I.Mar.E., A.M.I.Mech.E., A.M.I.E.E., H. Smith, A.M.I.Mech.E., Grad.I.E.E., 475l. for 2 years; 500l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 840l. by 40l. to 1,000l.

Geological Survey.
Director of Geological Survey, N. R. Junner, O.B.E., M.C., D.Sc., D.I.C., F.G.S., M.I.M.M., 1,400l.
Deputy Director of Geological Survey, W. G. G. Cooper, Ph.D., B.Sc. (Engineering), A.R.C.S., F.G.S., A.I.M.M., 1,050l.

Senior Geologist, T. Hirst, D.I.C., A.R.C.S., A.I.M.M., 880l. by 40l. to 1,000l.

Geologists, G. J. Williams, Ph.D., M.Sc., B.E. (Mining), D.I.C., A.I.M.M., F.G.S., D. A. Bates, M.Sc., F.G.S., A.I.M.M., A. Huddleston, B.Sc., F.G.S., 550l. for 2 years; 575l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 840l.

Superintendent of Records (London Office), W. T. James, 400l. by 15l. to 430l.; 450l. by 25l. to 600l.

Engineer, G. L. H. Leston (Water Supply Section), 475l.; 475l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 840l.

Gold Coast Regiment, Royal West African Frontier Force.
Commandant, Brigadier C. E. M. Richards, D.S.O., M.C.

Police Force.
Commissioner of Police, Capt. E. C. Nottingham, M.C., 1,350l.
Deputy Commissioner of Police, R. E. Foulger, 1,050l.
Staff Officer, L. A. Hagen, Scale A.

Superintendent of Police, Criminal Investigation Division, N. S. Mansergh, M.B.E., Scale A.

Superintendents of Police, Major F. L. Hamilton, M.C., J. C. Piagrome, M.C., Capt. H. M. Mitchell, M.C., C. E. Duruty, M.C., Capt. P. Eckel, M. L. Fraser, Major B. A. S. Bennett, J. P. P. Gildes, Capt. C. E. Wingrove, Scale A.

For Scales A to C see footnote on page 831.
Senior Assistant Superintendents and Assistant Superintendents of Police, Capt. A. D. Mac.M. The O'Morchoe, R. Tottenham, G. C. Grand, H. P. Morris, W. A. Govan, S. C. Sinclair, R. A. Jones, M.C., N. G. Maclean, F. F. W. S. Williams, E. M. Berkeley-Barton, J. N. Franklin, C. H. Imray, D. G. Carruthers, S. S. Horden, T. D. Widdup, I. G. Weir, J. C. Hooton, Capt. A. G. Ames, L. Chapman, R. M. E. Markham, A. R. Millar, U. C. Tristram, Scale A.

African Assistant Superintendent of Police, J. S. Manyo-Plange, 335l. by 15l. to 350l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 780l.

Bandmaster, G. T. Marsh, 400l. by 12l. to 500l.

Office Assistant and Accountant, J. Myers Hansen, 300l. by 12l. to 384l.; 400l. by 20l. to 500l.

Prisons Department.

Director of Prisons, H. J. L. Cavenaugh, 1,050l.

Senior Prison Superintendent, J. T. Mills, 600l. by 30l. to 720l.

Prison Superintendent, B. E. Parkinson, E. A. L. Page, T. P. Robinson, J. Redman, 400l. by 12l. to 520l. by 20l. to 600l.

Instructor of Industries, R. A. Woods, 540l. by 12l. to 600l.

Chief Clerk, S. Q. Botchwey, 300l. by 12l. to 396l.

Survey Department.

Director of Surveys, Capt. S. C. Saward, M.C., M.M., 1,250l.

Deputy Director of Surveys, C. G. Fannin, M.C., B.A., A.I.C.E., 1,050l.

Office Assistant and Accountant (vacant), 400l., 400l., 450l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 720l.

Cartographer, F. C. Blake, 400l. for 2 years; 450l. by 25l. to 600l.; 660l. by 30l. to 810l.

Chief Draughtsman, G. D. Meredith, 400l. for 2 years; 450l. by 25l. to 600l.; 660l. by 30l. to 810l.

Draughtsman, W. T. Harrington, 400l.; 415l.; 430l.; 450l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 720l.

Senior Surveyors, C. R. Petty, K. M. Vaughan, W. Cutland, W. Gemmell, 880l. by 40l. to 1,000l.

Surveyors, E. W. Kenward, Major C. L. M. Douet, B.Sc., Capt. A. E. W. Nesbitt, M.C., E. W. W. Brown, A. V. Lawes, M.A., H. M. Mowat, B.Sc., M.A., L. G. Westwood, 450l.; 450l.; 475l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 630l.; 690l. by 30l. to 840l.

African Surveyor, K. Asante, 400l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 780l.

Lands Department.

Commissioner of Lands, G. W. Staepoole, 1,100l.

Assistant Commissioners of Lands, J. A. Rice, W. T. Roe, R. A. H. Tougher, M. Howell, C. F. Williams, R. L. Rieu, 600l.; 600l.; 600l.; 630l. by 30l. to 840l.

Executive Officer and Officer-in-Charge Records (vacant), 400l.; 415l.; 430l.; 450l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 720l.

Record Draughtsmen, L. G. Devereaux, W. Robertson, 400l.; 400l.; 450l. by 25l. to 600l.; 660l. by 30l. to 810l.

Transport Department.

Chief Transport Officer, Capt. A. H. Cruickshank, M.I.Mar.E., 880l. by 40l. to 1,000l.

Engineer Transport Officers, Major J. C. L. Taylor, R. M. S. Dowling, A.M.Mech.E., 475l.; 475l.; 500l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 840l.

Public Works Department.

Director of Public Works, P. Hall, A.M.I.C.E., 1,500l.

Deputy Director of Public Works, J. R. Roberts, A.M.I.C.E., A.M.I.W.E., 1,200l.

Assistant Director of Public Works, R. M. Fisher, 1,100l.

Senior Executive Engineer, Major C. Alderson, D.S.O., B.Sc., M.I.M.I.C.E., 1,050l.

Senior Public Health Engineer, W. R. Sheffield, A.M.I.C.E., 1,050l.

Chief Mechanical and Electrical Engineer, R. H. Jones, M.Sc., M.I.E.E., A.M.I.Mech.E., 1,060l.

Chief Accountant (vacant), 750l. by 30l. to 840l.

Assistant Chief Accountant, A. H. Merrett, 750l. to 810l.

Executive Engineers, Grade I, N. J. Silcock, A.M.I.M. & C.E., M.S.E., W. A. Coveney, B.E., A.M.I.C.E., G. F. Stewart, B.Sc., A.M.I.C.E., A. Drury, B.E., A.M.I.C.E., D. W. McCulloch, A.I.W.E., 880l. by 40l. to 1,000l.

Executive Engineers, Grade II, J. W. Watts, A. G. McPherson, A.M.I.M. & C.E., A.R.S.I., W. L. North, A.M.I.C.E., F. S. Drake, B.Sc., M.I.M. & C.E., A. V. S. Henderson, B.A., B.A.I., S. S. Tindall, A.M.I.C.E., & C.E., D. R. McKinlay, A.M.I.Struct.E., G. Paltridge, B.A., B.A.I., T. D. Lewis, A.M.I.C.E., A. O. Barrie, J. Moore (two vacancies), 475l. for 2 years; 500l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 840l.

Senior Mechanical and Electrical Engineers, B. F. Smith-Cleburne (one vacancy), 880l. by 40l. to 1,000l.

Mechanical and Electrical Engineers, T. F. Quinlan, A.M.I.Mech.E., Major J. S. Thain, M.C., R.E. (R. of O.), C. E. Proctor, A.M.I.E.E., A.M.I.M.E. (one vacancy), 475l. for 2 years; 500l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 840l.

Engineering Chemist, J. S. Dunn, B.Sc., F.I.C., 475l. for 2 years; 500l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 840l.; 880l. by 40l. to 1,000l.

Assistant Accountants, A. E. Edwards, J. H. Julyan, R. L. Grennan, A.C.R.A., A.C.C.S., R. A. Bignell, D. Howie, C. L. Watson, W. A. Stephenson, G. T. Bridgman-Evans (two vacancies), 400l.; 400l.; 450l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 720l.

Mechanical Storekeeper, G. L. Hutton, 400l.; 400l.; 450l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 720l.

European Building Inspectors, H. O. Ventress, A.M.I.S.E., J. H. Hutchinson, A.M.I.S.E., A.M.I.Struct.E., A. C. Fairbrother, M.C., H. L. Evans, J. W. McIntyre, 400l. by 15l. to 430l.; 450l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 720l.

Chief Inspectors of Works, A. T. Wood, W. H. Smith, W. N. Waterson, 600l.

Station Engineers, R. Macaulay, E. Fitton, H. Horsfall, W. J. Veal, A. H. Clarke, W. J. Phillips, W. Allan, 500l. by 12l. to 600l.

Broadcasting Department.

Superintendent of Broadcasting, F. A. W. Byron, O.B.E., 450l. for 2 years; 475l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 630l.; 690l. by 30l. to 840l.; 880l. by 40l. to 920l.

Broadcast Officers, J. W. Foster, G. W. Butcher, T. A. Huxtable, E. E. Frewin, N. T. Harrison, 450l. for 2 years; 475l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 630l.; 690l. by 30l. to 720l.

Labour Department.

Chief Inspector of Labour, Captain J. R. Dickinson, M.C., 1,400l.

Deputy Chief Inspector of Labour, R. W. Sanderson (seconded from Political Administration).

Air Services.

Meteorological Assistant, F. M. Levin, 400l.; 400l.; 450l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 720l.
