TRISTAN DA CUNHA.

Tristan da Cunha is the principal of a group of islands lying in lat. 37° 6'S. long., 12° 2' W., about midway between South Africa and South America. It is an extinct volcano rising to 7,640 feet above sea level, with a crater-lake near its summit. It was taken possession of by a military force during the residence of Napoleon at St. Helena. When the garrison was withdrawn in 1817, William Glass, a corporal of artillery, and his wife elected to remain, and they were joined by two ex-Navy men, Alexander Cotton and John Mooney, and these, with certain ship-wrecked sailors, became the founders of the present settlement, which is on the north-west of the island, where there is a comparatively level area about 9 miles long and 1½ miles broad and about 100 feet above the sea. After some years, the five unmarried settlers contracted with a sea captain to bring them wives from St. Helena. A supply of stores and provisions was provided out of a grant voted by Parliament, and sent out by a man-of-war in 1886, nearly all the able-bodied men having been drowned while attempting to board a vessel in December, 1885.

In November, 1933, the population numbered 167, all with the exception of 6 having been born in the Island. 13 were over the age of 60, including one man aged 76 and one woman aged 94. The inhabitants are generally healthy, and are spoken of as moral, religious, and hospitable.

In the way of live stock, the inhabitants have between them about 170 head of cattle, about 600 sheep and a stock of poultry. Potatoes do well, and crops are got in annually. Potatoes form the staple article of diet. Fish of good quality is obtainable in plenty. During the nesting season penguin and albatross eggs are gathered. For flour, sugar, jam and other prepared or manufactured food the island is dependent upon passing ships. Despite the limited choice of diet no evidence of malnutrition or deficiency disease is observable. Apple trees are in fair number, and bear well; there are also a few fig trees, but they do not fruit. The tree of the island, which apparently is a juniper, and upon
which the islanders are dependent for their wood for fuel, is getting scarce in the neighbourhood of the settlement, but is abundant further off, and there is no fear of supply failing.

The Society for the Propagation of the Gospel has from time to time maintained a clergyman in the island.

In January, 1904, the island was visited by H.M.S. "Odin" in order to ascertain whether the islanders would accept the offer of the Cape Government to settle them in the Cape Colony, but out of eleven families only three families elected to go. The islanders are liable from time to time to privations. In March, 1907, owing to information indicating probability of failure of supplies, relief was sent by His Majesty's Government by the "Greyhound," chartered at Cape Town. On this occasion also the inhabitants were unwilling to leave the island, and the Rev. J. G. Barrow, a clergyman who had gone to the island in April, 1908, reported that though there is sure to be privation from time to time, it does not cause absolute distress. (See correspondence presented to Parliament in Cd. 3098 and Cd. 3764.)

Arrangements are usually made for the island to be visited by a ship at least once a year.

January, February, and March are the best months for visiting the island. It is in these months that weather at times becomes so settled that the islanders are able to make visits to Inaccessible and Nightingale Islands, which are some 20 miles off. They also are often able to visit these islands in November to gather eggs, etc.

