NIGERIA.

Situation, Area and Population.

The British Colony and Protectorate of Nigeria is situated on the north-eastern shore of that deep indentation in the western coast of the African continent known as the Gulf of Guinea, and is enclosed roughly by parallels of latitude 4° and 14° N. and by meridians of longitude 3° and 14° E.

It is bounded on the north and north-west by the military territories of the French Sudan, on the east and south-east by the Cameroons, on the south and south-west by the waters of the Gulf of Guinea, and on the west by the French colony of Dahomey. Its greatest length from east to west is 700 miles and greatest breadth from north to south 650 miles.

The area of Nigeria is about 329,389 square miles, and of the British sphere of the Cameroons about 34,236 square miles, making in all about 363,625 square miles. The country is therefore a little less in area than the United Kingdom, France and Belgium together, or about one-third that of British India. The coloured population is estimated at 18,765,690, while the number of Europeans of all classes, on an average, in the country is 5,200.

Physiography.

Topographically speaking, Nigeria consists of the following four main zones or areas:

(1) An area of swamp and mangrove forest with almost impenetrable undergrowth, running parallel to the coast-line and varying in depth from 20 to 60 miles. This area, which includes the deltaic region of the River Niger, is covered by a network of creeks and traversed by numerous rivers, the most important of which are the Rivers Benin, Forcados (branch of the River Niger), Nun (branch of the River Niger), Sombreiro, Bonny, Imo, Kwa-Ibo, and Cross.

(2) A belt of dense forest with thick undergrowth extending from the western to the eastern boundary and from 50 to 100 miles in width. The southern border of this area is some 20 miles from the coast-line in the west and thence follows the northern limit of the swamp and mangrove area. Its northern edge is difficult to determine exactly, as the belt gradually changes to patches of forest alternating with thick scrub and grass plains running approximately along a line drawn in a general east-south-easterly direction from about 7° 30' N. on the western border to 6° N. on the extreme east. The country is generally undulating with scattered hills, and an extensive view can seldom be obtained; there are, however, hills rising to over 3,000 feet, and the region becomes mountainous as the Cameroons frontier is approached. The zone is well watered by numerous rivers, which with few exceptions run from north to south, and contains extremely rich oil-palm areas. There are no open spaces, except around villages and clearings for farms.

(3) A zone of comparatively open country gradually developing into park-like land and thence into open expanses covered with high grass as the watershed of the River Benue and that of the Niger (above its confluence with the Benue) are neared. The zone is generally hilly and mountainous on the Cameroons frontier, where heights above 6,000 feet are to be found.

(4) A plateau occupying the greater portion of Nigeria north of the Rivers Niger and Benue. East of longitude 7° the southern limits of this plateau are determined by a zone of hills which succeeds the undulating grass country to the south. The features of the plateau are generally similar, and although many rivers take their rise in this tableland, it is broken to no great extent by their valleys, except in the cases of those of the Rivers Niger and Benue on the south and west. In elevation it does not exceed an altitude of much over 2,000 feet, except in the mountainous parts of Bauchi, where heights of 6,000 feet and more occur, and in the south-west of Yola, which is occupied by a part of the Cameroons mountain system. The surface is generally undulating, marked here and there by hills of granite and sandstone, which rise abruptly from the surrounding land. The country is clothed to a large extent with thin forests which become more and more scanty as the Western Sudan is entered and the arid "steppes" of the Sahara Desert are approached.

Climate.

West Africa formerly had the reputation of being so unhealthy that almost certain death would be the fate of the white man who endeavoured to make it his permanent home. And in this general condemnation Nigeria has been included. Though it cannot be claimed, even at the present day, that the country is a healthy one for the European except to a moderate extent on the plateau, the conditions of living have been so greatly improved during recent years that the possibilities of good health during temporary residence have been enormously increased. Medical and sanitary efforts have affected much by anti-malaria precautions, such as the use of quinine, and, around Lagos, the reclamation of considerable areas of swamp lands at great expense to Government. In spite, however, of this undoubtedly improvement in the conditions of life, Nigeria is not a land which can be colonised in the proper sense of the term by Europeans.

The "dry season," characterised by the "Harmattan," a dry north-easterly wind accompanied by a thick haze composed chiefly of dust, and the "rainy season" are the predominating features in the climate of Nigeria. The former begins in the north in October, extending its influence gradually southward until it is perceptible at Lagos early in November. There it appears intermittently up to the beginning of March, but in the north the dust and haze are more continuous and last until April. During this period the maximum diurnal variations of temperature occur. In 1922, the absolute minimum temperature recorded at Hadejia was 35°, and the absolute maximum was 115°. The wind blows generally from the north-east, and both diurnal variation and humidity vary with the severity of the Harmattan. Even in Lagos, where hourly observations are taken, during December and January the humidity has been known to fall to 28 per cent. This season is ushered in and out by short periods of tornadoes and the rainy season fills the remainder of the year. A prevailing south-west wind supplies on the coast a copious precipitation which decreases rapidly as it travels inland. At Bonny, on the coast, the rainfall recorded in 1923 was 150-99 inches, rain falling on 151 days; at Kaduna, in the middle of the country, 43-55 inches, rain falling on 112 days; while the lowest recorded was 25-03 inches at Sokoto, rain falling on 44 days.

History.

As far back as the 17th century British traders have had mercantile depôts on the mouths of the Niger and adjacent rivers and creeks, known as the Oil rivers, and in those early times the trade
Esjo occupy the western portion of
the est of the River Niger and Benoue,
altitude of the southern limits of this
area may extend to a zone of hills which

As far back as the 17th century British traders
have had merantile depots on the mouths of
these rivers, and in these early times the trade
continued along these waterways through
undulating grass country.
was mainly confined to the traffic in slaves. At this epoch the French attempted a settlement at the mouth of the Niger, but were unsuccessful, and during the 18th century British interests preponderated.

At the beginning of the 19th century the exploration of the upper river, which had hitherto been supposed to be identical with the Nile or Congo, began, and Mungo Park traced its course from Bamako to Bussa, where he lost his life in the rapids. Lander in 1830 demonstrated the identity of Mungo Park's river at Bussa with the lower Niger, and followed its course to the sea.

In the next two decades, 1840-60, efforts were made, both by the British Government and private individuals, including French and German merchants, to develop the trade of the Niger, while our knowledge of the interior was greatly enlarged by the travels of Clapperton and Allen, both British, and of Barth and others, all at British instigation. A consulate was founded at Lokoja, and, at the cost of much money and many lives, some progress seemed to have been made only to result in failure. The pioneer of these efforts was McGregor Laird, who in 1852 began to establish stations and to endeavour to secure the country for England, but the stations were destroyed by natives, or removed after Laird's death in 1861. The good results of his work were not, however, entirely lost.

The situation in the early seventies was that there were numerous trading firms—English, French, and German—on the Oil rivers, where the export trade in palm oil had begun to assume importance, the imports being chiefly confined to spirits, guns and powder. The expeditions sent by the British Government to the higher river, and the subsidies voted by Parliament, had been withdrawn, and European intercourse with the Niger would have ceased had it not been for the perseverance of a few British firms, who during the four months of high water each sent a trading steamer up the river, and soon established a few primitive stations, where the white population of Nigeria lived. These bold pioneers were at the mercy of powerful chiefs, and gross outrages were from time to time avenged by the despatch of a light draught gunboat.

At the close of 1877, Mr. Goldie-Taubman—afterwards Sir G. Taubman Goldie—visited the Niger and recognised that amalgamation of interests and a settled government must replace the chaotic rivalry of traders. With this object in view he determined to secure a charter for a British Company. After much negotiation the small British interests, which were the only ones existent on the Niger at that date, were amalgamated in the United African Company in 1879, and in 1881 a charter was applied for. The objection was raised that the capital of the Company was too small, and hence the National African Company was formed with a capital of a million sterling, with the object of opening up direct relations with the great chiefs of the interior.

With great energy the new company founded stations, sent out a river flotilla, and shed up the Niger and Benue, but meanwhile the foresight of Gambetta had prompted the establishment of two French Companies, which, being backed by the French Government, acquired a great influence on the lower Niger. Of these the Compagnie du Senegal had a capital of 600,000£, and some thirty French stations were formed, and while the French flag remained the charter could not, of course, be granted. The energy of Sir George Goldie, however, secured the disappearance of the French flag just in time to announce at the Berlin Conference in 1885 that the British flag alone flew on the Niger, and to secure to Great Britain the guardianship of the international navigation rights on the Niger while the French companies and rival British interests which had meantime grown up were absorbed in the National African Company.

In April, 1885, a new danger arose from the mission of Herr Flegel to secure treaties with Sokoto and Gando on behalf of Germany, but he was anticipated by the British Company, who concluded treaties with those powerful emirs. Great Britain was, therefore, able to conclude the Agreement of 1886 with Germany, which settled the frontiers between Nigeria and the Cameroons as far north as Yola, and in July, 1886, the long-delayed charter was granted, and the Company changed its title to that of the Royal Niger Company. Meanwhile, the territories adjacent to the river had been placed under British protection.

The first decade was spent in founding a number of commercial and quasi-administrative stations on the Niger and Benue Rivers, and in making treaties with the native tribes, and consolidating the commercial organisation on which the Company was dependent for its revenue. The expeditions of Monteil to Lake Chad from the west, of Crampnel from the south-east, and of Mizon by way of the Niger and Benue, were checkmated, and finally, in 1890, an agreement was arrived at with France by which the line dividing the French Sudan on the north from Nigeria was drawn with certain defections from Say, on the Niger, to Barua, on Lake Chad, and in 1893 the Cameroons boundary was extended from Yola to the south of the same lake.

In 1897 the growing hostility of the great Fulah Power culminated in a plan to drive the white men out of the country. The Company were not unprepared, and they took the field with some 500 or 600 soldiers, led by about 30 British officers, against many thousands of the enemy, of whom a large proportion were mounted. Nupe, a dependency of Sokoto, which had thus challenged the Company's existence, was divided by the Niger into two nearly equal portions. The southern portion was first conquered, and then northern Nupe after a two days' fight before the capital at Bida. Ilorin, a smaller dependency, was next subdued. Prior to this southern Nupe had been partially cleared of the Fulah slave raiders, and on the 20th June, 1897, the legal status of slavery in the Niger Territories was declared abolished by the Company.

Simultaneously with this crisis another, which was to have far-reaching effects, arose. The only indeterminate frontier remaining was that to the west. The Company perceiving, in 1894, that French enterprise contemplated the annexation to Senegal and Dahomey of the Borgu country, sent out Captain Lugard (now Sir F. D. Lugard) to negotiate treaties with the king or chiefs of that country. Anticipating the powerful French expeditions by only a few days, he succeeded in making treaties at the cap'tal of Nikki, and with other semi-independent chiefs of districts. Disregarding these prior British treaties, a swarm of French expeditions spread over Borgu, and having obtained a pledge from our Government that Sir George Goldie's powerful expedition, then in the field against the Fulani, should not advance north of latitude 9°, they invaded Bussa, with which we had a specific treaty of many
years' standing, and established themselves on the Niger at several points.

At the end of 1897, in view of this situation, the British Government decided to raise an Imperial local force, and the task was confided to Colonel Lugard, who left England in March, 1898. After a period of great tension, during which the British and French troops faced each other, and a conflict was daily imminent, a convention was signed laying down a boundary line from the intersection of the 9th parallel with the frontier of Dahomey to Illo on the Niger, and thence to the northern frontier, which was more accurately defined, to Lake Chad, and to its junction with the Cameroons frontier. Meanwhile, the Emir installed at Bida by the Company was ousted, and the Nupes were again in arms, while the army of Rabeh, which had penetrated from the Nile Valley to Lake Chad, conquered and laid waste the territory of Bornu, but eventually returned to the south of Lake Chad.

The Imperial force, called the West African Frontier Force, with a "Commissioner and Commandant" at its head, and independent of the Company, was rapidly being formed, with its headquarters at Jebba, and with numerous detachments holding the posts evacuated by the French throughout Borgu, and a strong garrison at Lokoja.

The Imperial Government having decided that the charter of the Royal Niger Company should be revoked, and that its administrative rights and powers should be transferred to the Crown, steps to this end were taken at the end of 1898, when the convention with the French Government had been signed. The actual transfer of the Company's rights and possessions to the Crown took place on the 1st of January, 1900, when the territories north of a line extending, with deflections, from approximately latitude 9° on the Dahomey frontier to Idah on the River Niger, thence to Takum on the Cameroons border, were formed into the Protectorate of Northern Nigeria under Colonel Lugard as High Commissioner.

During the first years of the protectorate of Northern Nigeria, the Government was engaged in bringing under control the powerful Emirates of the Hausa States and the Kanuri Kingdom of Bornu. These Emirs, who maintained large standing armies, a large proportion of which was mounted, annually took the field and devastated vast tracts of country in slave-raiding expeditions. Despite the treaty with Sokoto, under which the Royal Niger Company paid him an annual subsidy, the Fulani Emirate now defied the Government. The Emirs of Nupe and Konotagora were brought under control in 1901; Yola, Bauchi and Bornu in 1902; and the work of pacification was practically completed in 1903 with the taking of Kano and Sokoto, and the action at Birni. Since that date the Hausa States have maintained a record of peaceful progress, with the exception of a rising by a so-called "Mahdi" in 1906 at Satiru in the Sokoto Province, which was, however, quickly suppressed with the loyal assistance of the Emir of Sokoto.

The minor Emirate of Hadeija in the extreme north, which had not previously been brought under control, assumed an aggressive attitude in 1906 which, however, was suppressed. It was necessary also to send minor expeditions against various unruly and truculent pagan tribes, of which the more important were the Munshis on both banks of the Benue, the Okpotos in the Bassa Province, and various hill-tribes in the Bauchi and Nassarawa Provinces.

In addition to the pacification of these vast areas—hitherto largely unexplored—the early years of the Protectorate were devoted to creating a Civil Government in all its departments, and to the housing of the civil and military officials, and the erection of public offices; the building of the first light railway from Barijuko (on the navigable Kaduna) to Zungeru (22 miles), to which place the seat of Government was transferred in 1902 from the temporary capital at Jebba; and the opening up of communications both by land and by the navigable waterways of the Niger, Benue, Kaduna and Gongola Rivers. In 1907 the construction of the main trunk line from the navigable Niger at Baro to Kano (356 miles), the great market of the Hausa States, was commenced and completed, as a pioneer line, in 1912. During the 14 years from the inception of the Government of Northern Nigeria on 1st January, 1900, to its amalgamation with Southern Nigeria on 1st January, 1914, there were constructed in the Protectorate 700 miles of railways and 5,500 wire miles of telegraphs, while the Marine Department worked 1,000 miles of river.

In the political and administrative sphere a complete Civil Service was created, which increased from half a dozen officers in 1900 to an establishment of 132 residents and assistants in 1913. The guiding principle of the Administration was indirect rule through the native chiefs, the powers delegated to whom varied with their degree of enlightenment. A form of direct taxation was evolved, based on the elaborate system which obtained in the Hausa States prior to the British occupation, but shorn of its abuses. The collection of these taxes was made through the chiefs, a fixed proportion of them being retained in "Native Treasuries," from which the salaries of the native officials were paid.

As an indication of the progress achieved, the Durbar held at Kano on 1st January, 1913, may be instanced, when practically all the chiefs of the Protectorate—from the great Mohammedan Emirs to the petty chiefs of pagan hill tribes—assembled with such retinues as they were allowed to bring, estimated at 20,000 horsemen and 40,000 foot.

THE OIL RIVERS PROTECTORATE.—When, in 1885, the British Government at the conference of the European Powers, held at Berlin, was able to obtain acknowledgment of the fact that a British protectorate had been virtually established over the Niger districts, an Order-in-Council defining them was made, and the portion lying on the coast line was designated the Oil Rivers Protectorate, and placed under Consular rule.

In 1891 the rule of the Consul over the Oil Rivers Protectorate was exchanged for that of a Commissioner and Consul-General, stationed at Old Calabar (now Calabar), while Deputy Commissioners and Vice-Consuls were appointed to the Rivers Benin, Bonny, Brass and Forosados, and to the districts of Sapele and Warri.

By an Order-in-Council of 1893 the Oil Rivers Protectorate was extended definitely into the hinterland under the name of the Niger Coast Protectorate, and an administration established under an Imperial Commissioner and Consul-General.

Benin.—In 1892 Captain Gallwey (now Sir H. L. Galway) concluded a treaty with the king of Benin.
As time passed, however, it became evident that this potentate had no intention of adhering to its provisions.

At this period Benin held enormous power over the surrounding territory, and it was said that her influence extended even so far as Sierra Leone on one side and the Congo River on the other. The terrible nature of the fetish rites and the wholesale human sacrifices which took place in Benin City, urgently demanded European intervention and the introduction of civilised rule.

Early in 1897 a peaceful mission, organised by the Acting Consul-General to establish friendly relations with Overami, the king of Benin, and to induce him to carry out the terms of the treaty of 1892, was treacherously attacked, and with the exception of two, all the European members of the party were massacred. A powerful expedition was sent against Benin, and in a short time the capital had been captured, but the king made good his escape. The state in which Benin City was found passes all description. In every direction human remains, pits filled with bodies in various stages of decomposition, and altars dripping with fresh human blood were to be seen.

Overami eventually surrendered and was sent into exile at Calabar, where he died in the early part of 1914. In 1899 there was a second expedition into the Benin country, which resulted in the capture and execution of Ologbohene, the leader of the attack on the mission.

THE PROTECTORATE OF SOUTHERN NIGERIA, 1900-1906.—When in 1900 the charter of the Royal Niger Company was revoked by the Crown that portion of its territories lying between Idah and the coast was added to the Niger Coast Protectorate. At the same time by an Order-in-Council the Niger Coast Protectorate was constituted the Protectorate of Southern Nigeria, the administration being transferred from the Foreign Office to the Colonial Office, and placed under Sir R. Moor as High Commissioner. In 1901 the Niger Coast Protectorate troops were organised into a regiment of the West African Frontier Force, and remodelled on the lines of the original corps of that name raised in the Niger Company's territories by Colonel F. D. Lugard in 1898.

Towards the close of 1901 preparations for the Aro Expedition were commenced. These operations were directed against the southern Ibo people in general and the Aro, or Ikotun tribe in particular. The Aros, who may be described as the dominant section of the great Ibo family, held paramount power over a large extent of country lying between the Niger and Cross Rivers. They had established a powerful fetish, probably derived from Benin, known as the Long Juju which exercised an extremely evil influence on the ignorant and superstitious natives for miles around. After five months of arduous work, the Field Force accomplished the subjugation and disarmament of the Aro tribe, the destruction of the Long Juju and the bringing under Government control of that portion of the territories as far north as about the 5th parallel.

Between 1905 and 1909 several expeditions were sent into the hinterland with the object of opening to trade and civilisation previously unexplored tracts of country. The principal operations were the Bende-Onitsha Hinterland Expedition, 1905-06, and the Niger-Cross River Expedition, 1908-09. As the troops progressed through the country new administrative districts and stations were formed, broad roads constructed in all directions, and many new markets established.

The eastern frontier from the Cross River rapids to the sea was surveyed by an Anglo-German Commission in 1905-06; and from Cross River rapids to Yola in 1907-09. For some years before these delimitations, there were frequent raids across the border by German native soldiery from the Cameroons, which were invariably accompanied by robbery with violence and seizure; and even after the boundary line had been demarcated this violation of British territory did not cease.

LAGOS OR EKO.—During the reign of Kosoko, Lagos, or Eko as it is known to the natives, became the chief centre of the slave trade in the Bight of Benin. Akitoye, his cousin, from whom the throne had been usurped, issued a proclamation to the effect that he would make common cause with the British against slavery if he were reinstated. Acting on this statement, the British Government took decisive measures, and in 1851 a party of bluejackets from Her Majesty's warships attacked and reduced the town. Kosoko fled and Akitoye was restored to power. In 1852 Akitoye and his chiefs signed a treaty by the terms of which they agreed to abolish the export of slaves, and to encourage the work of missionaries and the establishment of stations for them. A Consul was appointed to Lagos for the protection of British interests.

About nine months after the signature of this treaty some Portuguese slave traders, who had been expelled, returned to Lagos and renewed their old practices. Akitoye was informed of what was going on, and their attempts were promptly suppressed. In consequence of this, the slave trade party, under the leadership of Kosoko, organised a rebellion which broke out in 1853. Indecisive encounters took place between the two factions, and bluejackets were landed to protect the Consulate. Attempts which were made by the Consul and officers to mediate failed, and finally marines were sent to assist Akitoye, when, after a short fight, Kosoko was defeated and fled. Dosumu, who succeeded his father Akitoye, was unable to adhere to the terms of the treaty, and was induced in 1861 to cede the sovereignty of Lagos and dependent territories to the Crown in consideration of a pension, which he continued to draw until his death in 1885.

THE COLONY OF LAGOS.—In 1862 these territories were erected into a Colony, and the following year Kosoko, who in 1854 had been acknowledged king of Lekki and Palma, districts lying to the eastward, ceded these places to the Lagos Government. At the same time Protectorate rights were established over Ado and Oke-Odan on the west. In 1866 the Colony became a portion of the West African Settlements, retaining a separate Legislative Council, but being subject to the Governor-in-Chief at Sierra Leone. In 1874 the Colony, which extended from Badagri on the west to Odi on the east with an indefinite inland boundary, was united to the Gold Coast Colony.

In 1883 Appa, lying on the western border of the Colony, was the next district to be brought under British jurisdiction. In 1884, the British Consul concluded a treaty with the Jekris by which their country as far as Mollume, was placed under British protection, and similar treaties were made with the chiefs of Ogbo and Mahin, small tribal areas situated in the creek region to the eastward. In 1886 the Lagos territories were
separated from the Gold Coast and erected into a separate Colony and Protectorate. Between the years 1886 and 1896 Mahin, Ijebu-Ro, Itsebu, and Aiyesan to the east, and Kotonu, Igbesa, Ado and Ilaro to the west were proclaimed part of the Protectorate. An expedition was sent against the Ijesus in 1892, which resulted in the military occupation of their country, and in the opening of a most important trade route to the interior.

From this time onward British influence gradually spread inland towards the Niger, and in 1899 the Protectorate was extended to the confines of Northern Nigeria and to the border of the Niger Coast Protectorate. The country generally prospered, and Lagos became a great trading port with many large mercantile firms, both European and native, established. Great trade routes were opened into the interior, and a railway was constructed from Lagos to Ibadan, passing through a thickly populated and fertile agricultural country.

**The Colony and Protectorate of Southern Nigeria, 1906-1913.**—In 1906 the Colony of Lagos and its protected territory were amalgamated with the Protectorate of Southern Nigeria under one administration and designated the Colony and Protectorate of Southern Nigeria. For administrative purposes the country was partitioned into three main divisions—the Western Province, which coincided with the former Colony and Protectorate of Lagos; and the Central and Eastern Provinces, which previously formed the Protectorate of Southern Nigeria.

The next few years were spent in building up an extensive system of communications. The railway from Lagos to Ibadan was extended over the Northern Nigeria border to Jebba; thence across the Niger to Zungeru; and finally linked up with the railway in operation from Baro on the Niger to Kano, the great Mohammedan trade centre of the north. A light railway was built joining the main line at Zaria with the tin fields of Bauchi. Broad main roads were driven in all directions and telegraph lines constructed between important administrative and trade centres.

In 1901 the great undertaking of making Lagos an open port by the construction of huge moles and by the dredging of the sandbar, which obstructed the entrance to the harbour, was commenced; and by the end of 1913 sufficient progress had been made to permit of large ocean-going steamers entering the harbour and berthing alongside the wharves. For several years vessels drawing 20 feet of water have been able to use the harbour.

Large areas in the north-eastern portion of the Protectorate, notably the country inhabited by the warlike and hitherto intractable Munshi people were brought under Government supervision.

**The Amalgamation of Northern and Southern Nigeria, 1914:**—By Letters Patent of 29th November, 1913, and an Order-in-Council dated the 22nd of November, 1913, which Instruments came into operation on the 1st January, 1914, the Colony and Protectorate of Southern Nigeria and the Protectorate of Northern Nigeria were formed into the Colony and Protectorate of Nigeria. By another Order of the same date the boundaries of the Colony of Nigeria were defined, and by a third Order, which applied to the Colony and to the Protectorate, an advisory and deliberative body known as the Nigerian Council was established.

Provision was made for an Executive Council and for a Legislative Council for the Colony. The legislative power for the Protectorate was vested in the Governor. The Colony was placed under an Administrator, and the Protectorate, divided into two groups of provinces—Northern and Southern—under two Lieutenant-Governors.

Since the amalgamation, the chief events in the history of Nigeria have been the Great War, which resulted in the conquest of the Cameroons; the building of the Eastern Railway, and the development of the ports of Lagos and Port Harcourt, and of the Government Colliery at Enugu; the great trade boom of 1919 and 1920, and the great trade depression which succeeded it in 1921; the institution in 1923 of an enlarged and partly elected Legislative Council for the Colony and the Southern Provinces of the Protectorate (see under Constitution); and the visit of the Prince of Wales in 1925.

**Political and Administrative Divisions.**

Nigeria is arranged in three main divisions, the "Colony" and two groups of provinces designated the "Northern Provinces" and the "Southern Provinces," which have areas of 1,400, 255,700, and 78,600 square miles respectively. The Colony comprises the former Colony of Southern Nigeria, while the two groups of provinces are formed from the late Protectorates of Northern and Southern Nigeria.

The Northern Provinces are Adamawa, Bauchi, Benue, Bornu, Ilorin, Kabba, Kano, Niger, Plateau, Sokoto, and Zaria.

The Southern Provinces are Abeokuta, Benin, Calabar, Cameroons, Ijebu, Oyo, Ogoja, Ondo, Onitsha, Owerri, and Warri.

The Provinces are each partitioned into divisions. The seat of Government is established at Lagos. The Administrative Head-quarters of the Colony is at Lagos, while those of the Northern and Southern Provinces are at Kaduna and Enugu, respectively.

**The Cameroons:**—The conquest of the Cameroons was completed in February, 1916, after a series of operations which commenced in August 1914.

An Anglo-French military and naval force under the command of Brigadier-General C. Dobell, (afterwards Major-General Sir C. Dobell), the Inspector General of the West African Frontier Forces, compelled Duala to surrender on 27th September, 1914, and after hard fighting drove the German forces from the surrounding districts.

On the 10th June, 1915, Garua, on the River Benue, fell after a siege of a few weeks by forces from Nigeria and the French Chad Territory under the command of Brigadier-General Cunliffe, the Commandant of the Nigeria Regiment, W.A.F.F.; having cleared the north of the Cameroons except Mora, these forces marched southwards driving the Germans before them to the Sanaga River.

French forces, with a Belgian contingent from the Congo, invaded the Cameroons from French Equatorial Africa under the command of General Aymerich and gradually pushed forward from the south-east and south towards Yaunde, which had become the headquarters of the German forces. Finally the main German forces, being almost surrounded by the converging advance of the Allied troops, retreated southwards into the Spanish territory of Muni, where they were interned, and the isolated garrison of Mora in the north then surrendered.
By an arrangement which came into effect on 1st April, 1916, the Cameroons was provisionally divided into British and French spheres. The British sphere (about 31,150 square miles in extent) consisted of two portions. The smaller, in the extreme north was intended to include the whole of the Sultanate of Dikwa or German Bornu. The larger consisted of a strip of country bordering on Nigeria, about 400 miles in length and with a maximum width of 80 miles, extending from about 30 miles south of Yola to the Cameroon estuary. It included Buesa, the German administrative capital of the Cameroons, and the ports of Victoria, Tiko, and Rio del Rey, and consisted of nearly the whole of the Victoria District, the Kumba (or Johann Albrechtsbühne) District, the Ossidinge District, part of the Chang District, the Bamenda District, and parts of the Banyo and Garua Districts.

The estimated population of the British sphere was about 650,000.

The rest of the Cameroons, about 275,000 square miles, with Duala and Kribi, the chief ports, was assigned to France. Boundary adjustments with the French took place in 1920 in accordance with an agreement signed by Lord Milner and M. Simon on 10th July, 1919. The principal features of these were the transfer to the British of the country west of the Mandara Mountains from the Dikwa Sultanate in the north to the River Tiel in the south, and the transfer of nearly all the Chang District to the French.

The British sphere was placed under the control of the Governor of Nigeria, and the parts of the sphere to the north of the Bamenda District were administered by the staffs of the adjoining Nigerian Provinces of Bornu and Yola. The Bamenda, Ossindinge, Kumba, and Victoria Districts were administered as a separate Cameroons Province with four Divisions (Bamenda, Mamfe, Victoria, Kumba) under a Resident stationed at Buesa, responsible to the Governor of Nigeria through the Lieutenant-Governor of the Southern Provinces. The large German cocoa, rubber and banana plantations in the Victoria District, with about 48,000 acres under cultivation, were placed in the charge of a Plantation Department, in order that they might be kept in good order as far as possible until their mode of disposal was settled. They were sold by auction in November, 1924.

By the Treaty of Versailles, Germany renounced in favour of the Principal Allied and Associated Powers all her rights over the Cameroons.

In December, 1920, the British and French Governments submitted to the Council of the League of Nations draft mandates for the British and French spheres with a joint recommendation (dated 17th December, 1920) for the division of the Cameroons in accordance with the Milner-Simon agreement of 10th July, 1919. In October, 1921, the Council of the League approved in principle the division of the country in accordance with that agreement and the application of the mandate system to those territories, and on 20th July, 1922, after a delay due to negotiations between the United States Government and the Mandatory Powers, the Council confirmed the mandates and defined their terms.*

By an Order in Council, dated 1923 and brought into force in February, 1924, and by Nigerian Ordinance No. 3 of 1924, provision was made for the future government of the British Sphere as if it were part of the Protectorate of Nigeria.

Under these enactments, the Cameroons Province is administered and legislated for as if it formed one of the Southern Provinces of the Protectorate, while the northern parts are administered and legislated for as if they formed parts of the Northern Provinces of Bornu and Yola; and most of the laws of Nigeria are applied to the British Sphere, subject to the terms of the mandate as regards the few provisions thereof which are not in accordance with ordinary Nigerian law and practice.

Commerce and Industry.

The progress of Nigeria may be illustrated by the fact that in 1904 the total value of imports and exports (excluding specie) was a little over 5 millions sterling, as compared with over 12 millions in 1914 and over 31 millions in 1928.

Imports consist chiefly of the following goods, which are arranged alphabetically, and not in order of value:—Aerated waters, bags and sacks, beads, beef, bicycles, biscuits, chemicals and drugs, cigars and cigarettes, kola-nuts, cooper's stores, cotton and woollen goods, cutlery, earthenware, enamelware, firearms, fish, flour, furniture, galvanized iron, gunpowder, haberdashery, hardware, kerosene, matches, perfumery, rice, rope and twine, salt, silk goods, soap, spirits, stationery, sugar, timber, tobacco, umbrellas, wearing apparel, wines, and a great number of miscellaneous articles. Cotton-piece goods form the principal class in the import table, 4,169,339l. worth being received in 1928.

The principal exports are palm-kernels, palm-oil, tin, hides and skins, ground-nuts, cotton lint, cocoas, mahogany, rubber, and Shea produce.

The influence of railway extensions in the Northern Provinces is shown by the largely increased exports of ground-nuts, hides and skins, and Shea produce. In 1911, the year before the railway to Kano was opened, the total value of these three products shipped overseas was 89,000l. only, as compared with 2,863,140l. of these products in 1928. There is also a large increase in cotton goods carried to Kano.

Deposits of lignite and coal have been discovered near Asaba and Udi in the Southern Provinces. A colliery was opened by Government in 1915 at Enugu, the coal won being used by Government Departments or sold to the public. The output for 1928 was 363,743 tons.

Amongst minor products exported from the Colony and Protectorate may be mentioned ivory, ebony, copra, coffee, gutta percha, beeswax, silk, gums, hennised, piassava fibre, capsicums, ginger and ostrich feathers.

Crops cultivated for home consumption include maize, yams, cassava, sweet potatoes, sugar cane, guinea corn, ground-nuts, rice, millet, tobacco, plantains and bananas, beans of various kinds, etc. Wheat is grown to a small extent in some parts of the Northern Provinces.

Large herds of cattle, sheep, and goats are raised in the Northern Provinces, and in the extreme north, ostriches and camels are bred. Horses and donkeys are bred and in common use in the northern part of the Protectorate.

The ports served by ocean steamers are, from west to east, Lagos, Forcados and Burutu, Warri, Sapele, Koko Town, Akassa, Bonny, Port Harcourt, Degema, Opobo, Calabar, and Victoria, and Tiko, Cameroons.

Import and export merchants are established at the ports, and also up-country along the main waterways, the Niger, Benue, and Cross Rivers, and at inland railway stations.

* For text of the British mandate see Cmd. 1794.
The Nigerian Tin Fields.

The principal tin fields are situated on the western boundary of the Bauchi Province and in the Provinces of Nassarawa, Zaria, and Kano adjoining that boundary. Tin is also known to exist in the Provinces of Ilorin, Calabar, and Yola, but as yet has not been found in payable quantities.

The tin is in the form of cassiterite, and is mostly found in the detrital deposits resultant on the vast denudation that has taken place all over the known field; it is therefore more readily discovered in the existing river-beds; and shows a tendency to increase in size and richness of deposit nearer their sources.

The pagan town of Bukuru may be taken roughly as the centre of the field (about 6,000 feet above sea level), from which three great waterways of the Northern Provinces take their origin. Flowing westwards we have the Ngel River becoming the Kwall Danchandon, and eventually the Kaduna, flowing north-east the Delimi River that goes to Lake Chad, and flowing east the numerous tributaries of the Gongola which joins the Benue, such as the Shen, Forum, Ropp and Jarawa Rivers.

Tin ore has been worked and smelted by the natives during the last hundred years, the Seriki (Chief) of Liruine-Delma being a grandson of the native who historically first discovered and worked it. There is, however, strong evidence to show that some former race knew of its existence. Beads may be seen that have been found in the deep detrital deposits that could only have been made by man. These beads bear no resemblance to the modern ornaments made by tin workers, nor are such beads worn by any existing race of natives near the fields, also the depth at which they have been found precludes a modern origin.

The ore won by the existing mines amounted in 1913 to 5,530 tons. The exports were 8,475 tons in 1923, and 13,070 tons valued at £2,209,045.4s. in 1928.

Banking, Currency, Weights and Measures.

Banking facilities are afforded by the Bank of British West Africa Ltd., and Barclays Bank (Dominion, Colonial and Overseas). The former is established at Lagos (local head office, Marina, and branch office, 196, Broad Street), Abeokuta, Benin City, Calabar, Enugu, Forosados, Ibadan, Ijebu-Ode, Onitsha, Opobo, Oshogbo, Oyo, Port Harcourt, Sapele and Warri. The only large town in the Colony is Lagos, the capital of Nigeria.

Steamships maintain a regular service between Nigeria, Europe, other West African Colonies, etc., and there is cable communication with West and South West African ports, Europe and South Africa, and thus with all parts of the civilised world.

The Western Division of the Nigerian Railway (3ft. 6in. gauge) runs from Lagos on the coast through the important towns of Abeokuta, Ibadan, Kaduna and Zaria, to Kano, a distance of 706 miles, thus connecting large and populous commercial centres in the interior with each other and with the sea. The main line from Kano is being extended to N’Guru, situated just inside Bornu Province; this line has a projected length of 144 miles, and, it is expected, will be completed early in 1930. There are also three branch lines, one of 111 miles running from Minna to Baro, on the River Niger, another, a 2ft. 6in. light railway 133 miles long, from Zaria to Jos on the Bauchi Plateau, and a third, from Zaria through Funtua to Gusau. The last was approved in 1926, and opened on 1st January, 1929, and has been extended to Kaura Namoda, 142 miles from the junction. In 1913-16 a 3ft. 6in. gauge railway was built from Port Harcourt, on a branch of the Bonny River, to Enugu, a distance of 151 miles. This line, which is generally known as the Eastern Railway, runs through a rich oil-palm belt, and taps the coal field at the Government Colliery at Enugu. Construction was resumed after the war, and the next section, of 140 miles, from Enugu to Makurdi on the Benue River, was completed in 1923. The final section (302 miles), from the Benue to Kaduna, was completed in 1927. The line is 593 miles in length and affords an alternative outlet for the tin-ore and agricultural produce of the north, and renders the coal mined at Enugu available throughout the districts served by the Western Division of

African silver coins are legal tender to any amount; United Kingdom bronze coins and West African nickel-bronze coins are legal tender to the extent of one shilling.

The West African silver coins, authorised by the Nigerian Coinage Order, 1913, were introduced in May, 1913. Owing to the rapid disappearance of silver coins other West African coins of alloyed metal of the same denominations, and of the same standard weights, but of a low intrinsic value, were introduced in pursuance of the provisions of His Majesty’s Order-in-Council dated 9th February, 1920, and the silver coins are being withdrawn. This alloy coinage has been in circulation since 31st July, 1920. The West African nickel-bronze coins were introduced in 1907, 1908 and 1911. Currency notes were introduced in 1916 under the Currency Note Ordinance of that year. Notes of the values of 20s. and 10s. are now in circulation.

The weights and measures in common use are the same as those in Great Britain.

Chief Towns and Means of Communication.

The principal towns of the Northern Provinces are:—Bida, Ilorin, Jos, Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Lokoja, Maiduguri, Sokoto, Yola, and Zaria; while those of the Southern Provinces are:—Aba, Abeokuta, Benin City, Calabar, Enugu, Forosados, Ibadan, Ijebu-Ode, Onitsha, Opobo, Oshogbo, Oyo, Port Harcourt, Sapele and Warri. The only large town in the Colony is Lagos, the capital of Nigeria.

Steamships maintain a regular service between Nigeria, Europe, other West African Colonies, etc., and there is cable communication with West and South West African ports, Europe and South Africa, and thus with all parts of the civilised world.

The Western Division of the Nigerian Railway (3ft. 6in. gauge) runs from Lagos on the coast through the important towns of Abeokuta, Ibadan, Kaduna and Zaria, to Kano, a distance of 706 miles, thus connecting large and populous commercial centres in the interior with each other and with the sea. The main line from Kano is being extended to N’Guru, situated just inside Bornu Province; this line has a projected length of 144 miles, and, it is expected, will be completed early in 1930. There are also three branch lines, one of 111 miles running from Minna to Baro, on the River Niger, another, a 2ft. 6in. light railway 133 miles long, from Zaria to Jos on the Bauchi Plateau, and a third, from Zaria through Funtua to Gusau. The last was approved in 1926, and opened on 1st January, 1929, and has been extended to Kaura Namoda, 142 miles from the junction. In 1913-16 a 3ft. 6in. gauge railway was built from Port Harcourt, on a branch of the Bonny River, to Enugu, a distance of 151 miles. This line, which is generally known as the Eastern Railway, runs through a rich oil-palm belt, and taps the coal field at the Government Colliery at Enugu. Construction was resumed after the war, and the next section, of 140 miles, from Enugu to Makurdi on the Benue River, was completed in 1923. The final section (302 miles), from the Benue to Kaduna, was completed in 1927. The line is 593 miles in length and affords an alternative outlet for the tin-ore and agricultural produce of the north, and renders the coal mined at Enugu available throughout the districts served by the Western Division of
the Railway. A branch from the Eastern line at Kafanchan to Jos connects the tin mines of the Bauchi Plateau with Port Harcourt.

A short branch line of 24 miles is also under construction between Ifo-Ilaro-Idogo, and should be completed in 1930.

A system of inland telegraphs, also owned and operated by Government, connects the majority of the principal towns on the coast and in the interior, and the African Direct Telegraph Company controls a wireless station at Lagos.

The Government has constructed a very large number of roads, many of which are suitable for motor traffic, between the headquarter stations of the Provinces, and there are, in addition, many minor roads. Construction is proceeding vigorously. The Rivers Niger and Benue are in themselves great natural highways, and in the south there are numerous other navigable waterways, which provide means of communication and transport.

Religion and Education.

The bulk of the population of the Northern Provinces is Muhammadan, the majority of the remainder being pagan. In the Southern Provinces however, the proportions are reversed: Muhammadan communities occur especially in the western districts. Missionary societies of various Christian denominations have established many stations with churches and schools throughout the country.

Education work for the most part is carried on by the several missionary bodies whose schools outnumber those established and maintained entirely by Government. In the Southern Provinces the 1928 returns show that there are 49 Government Schools; 266 Assisted Schools in receipt of an annual grant-in-aid from Government awarded in accordance with the regulations of the Education Code; and 2,676 Non-Assisted Schools which are in no way controlled by the Department of Education. In addition to the above schools, a high-grade secondary school for boys is maintained at Lagos by the Government. This school called King's College was built and equipped at a cost of nearly 10,000/. Pupils are prepared for London Matriculation, and a branch for instruction in commercial subjects has been instituted. A secondary school for Girls was opened in Lagos in 1927. A new Education Code was introduced in 1916, under which grants in aid are paid on the general efficiency of the schools as disclosed by the reports of the Inspectors, account being taken of (1) adequacy and efficiency of staff; (2) tone, discipline, organisation, and moral instruction; (3) results of examinations by Masters and test examinations by Inspectors, and general progress; and (4) buildings, equipment, etc. The Education Boards set up under the Ordinance are in the Northern Provinces confined in their functions to Christian assisted schools.

In the Northern Provinces there are 89 Government Schools, in which elementary and primary instruction are given, and 155 Non-Assisted and over 31,819 Muhammadan schools. The local vernacular language is first employed as the medium for teaching elementary subjects; the course is then repeated in Hausa, and in Hausa only is given primary instruction in all standards except the highest, where the study of English is begun. In addition to the Government Schools there are very many Native Muhammadan Schools in which, however, little is taught except the study of the Koran and of the traditions of Islamic faith. Missionary societies also have opened schools, more especially in the southern pagan parts of the Northern Provinces.

Constitution.

The territorial divisions of Nigeria are the "Colony of Nigeria," the "Northern Provinces" and the "Southern Provinces." The Northern Provinces and the Southern Provinces together form the Protectorate.

The Government of the Colony of Nigeria is provided for by Letters Patent of 9th December, 1922, and Royal Instructions to the Governor of the Colony of the same date, as amended by Royal Instructions, dated 17th February, 1928. The Government of the Protectorate is provided for by the Nigeria Protectorate Order in Council, 1922, of 21st November, 1922, and Royal Instructions to the Governor of the Protectorate of 9th December, 1922 and 17th February, 1928.

The Nigeria (Legislative Council) Order in Council, 1922, dated 21st November, 1922, as amended by the Nigeria (Legislative Council) Order in Council, 1928, dated 16th May, 1928, provides for a Legislative Council for the Colony and the Southern Provinces of the Protectorate, and this Council is also given control over Protectorate Government expenditure in the Northern Provinces. The new Legislative Council consists of:

The Governor, as President.
The Official Members, viz:
The Members of the Executive Council.
The Senior Residents.
The Deputy Chief Secretary to Government.
The Secretary, Northern Provinces, and the Secretary, Southern Provinces.
The General Manager of the Railway.
The Director of Public Works.
The Director of Agriculture.
Three Nominated Official Members, viz:
Lt.-Col. R. H. Rowe, Commissioner of Lands.
E. R. J. Hussey, Director of Education.
G. B. Hebden, Postmaster-General.
The Elected Members, viz:
Three members elected by persons resident within the Municipal Area of Lagos, Dr. C. C. Adeniyi-Jones, E. O. Moore, T. A. Doherty.
One member elected by persons resident within the Municipal Area of Calabar, C. W. Clinton.
The Nominated Unofficial Members, not exceeding 15 in number.
One member nominated by the Lagos Chamber of Commerce, R. F. Irving.
One member nominated by the Calabar Chamber of Commerce, G. Graham Paul.
One member nominated by the Port Harcourt Chamber of Commerce, L. White.
One member nominated by the Kano Chamber of Commerce, J. W. Speer.
One member nominated by the local Chamber of Mines, A. L. Butler.
One member to represent Banking interests in Nigeria, L. M. Herapath.
One member to represent Shipping interests in Nigeria, H. S. Feggetter.
Members representing African interests —
Colony Division, Kitoyi Ajasa; Ibo Division, I. O. Mba; Egba Division, S. H. Pearce; Rivers Division, Mark Pepple Jaja; Niger African Traders, S. C. Obianwu; Oyo Division, E. H. Oke; Warri-Benin Division, I. T. Palmer.
The qualifications for registration as an elector in Lagos or Calabar are that the elector must be a male person who:—(1) is a British subject, or a native of the Protectorate of Nigeria; (2), is of the age of twenty-one years or upwards; (3), has been ordinarily resident for the twelve months immediately preceding the date of registration in the municipal area for which the election is being held; and (4), was during the calendar year immediately preceding in possession of a gross annual income from all sources, of not less than one hundred pounds.

The Nigerian Council, created in 1914, was abolished in 1923.

Statistics of Nigeria.

FINANCES (INCLUDING RAILWAY).

| Year | Revenue | Expenditure |
|------|---------|-------------|
| 1919 | £4,911,470 | £4,352,937 |
| 1920 | £6,738,042 | £6,020,739 |
| 1921-22 | £4,869,220 | £5,556,510 |
| 1922-23 | £5,505,465 | £5,410,983 |
| 1923-24 | £6,260,661 | £5,601,243 |
| 1924-25 | £6,944,220 | £5,768,715 |
| 1925-26 | £8,268,928 | £6,583,167 |
| 1926-27 | £7,734,429 | £7,584,692 |
| 1927-28 | £8,728,451 | £9,147,530 |
| 1928-29 | £8,429,308 | £9,395,749 |

IMPORTS.

| Year | From the United Kingdom | Total |
|------|------------------------|-------|
| 1919 | £8,864,457 | £10,798,671 |
| 1920 | £17,025,599 | £20,763,382 |
| 1921 | £8,203,204 | £10,232,117 |
| 1922 | £8,247,596 | £10,303,688 |
| 1923 | £7,931,250 | £10,271,066 |
| 1924 | £7,572,142 | £10,948,309 |
| 1925 | £10,901,832 | £14,783,209 |
| 1926 | £8,881,307 | £12,761,129 |
| 1927 | £10,083,981 | £14,437,993 |
| 1928 | £11,006,788 | £15,765,238 |

EXPORTS.

| Year | To the United Kingdom | Total |
|------|----------------------|-------|
| 1919 | £12,337,158 | £14,675,789 |
| 1920 | £15,478,787 | £16,956,270 |
| 1921 | £6,695,141 | £8,258,500 |
| 1922 | £6,760,575 | £8,936,302 |
| 1923 | £7,284,502 | £10,885,136 |
| 1924 | £8,692,627 | £14,460,930 |
| 1925 | £9,284,731 | £16,962,995 |
| 1926 | £8,331,928 | £16,681,310 |
| 1927 | £7,580,150 | £15,674,440 |
| 1928 | £7,435,276 | £17,075,165 |

SHIPPING ENTERED AND CLEARED.

| Year | British Tonnage | Total Tonnage |
|------|----------------|---------------|
| 1926 | 1,787,417 | 3,096,115 |
| 1927 | 1,904,514 | 3,367,313 |
| 1928 | 1,976,099 | 3,871,830 |

GOVERNORS FROM 1907.

Protectorate of Northern Nigeria.

1907 Sir E. P. C. Girouard.
1909 Sir H. Hesketh Bell, K.C.M.G.
1912 Sir F. D. Lugard, G.C.M.G., C.B., D.S.O.†

Governors and Administrators of the Colony and Protectorate of Southern Nigeria.

1907 Sir Walter Egerton, K.C.M.G.
1912 Sir F. D. Lugard, G.C.M.G., C.B., D.S.O.†

† Now Rt. Hon. Lord Lugard, P.C.

Governor.

Colony and Protectorate of Nigeria.

1914 Sir F. D. Lugard, G.C.M.G., C.B., D.S.O.*
1919 Sir Hugh Clifford, G.C.M.G., G.B.E.
1926 Sir Graeme Thomson, G.C.M.G., K.C.B.

Executive Council.

Governor, Sir Graeme Thomson, G.C.M.G., K.C.B.

Ex-Officio Members.

Chief Secretary to the Government, Sir F. M. Baddeley, K.B.E., C.M.G.
Lieutenant-Governor, Northern Provinces, H. R. Palmer, C.M.G., C.B.E.
Lieutenant-Governor, Southern Provinces, C. W. Alexander, C.M.G.
Attorney-General, A. C. V. Prior.
Commandant, Nigeria Regiment, Colonel C. C. Norman.
Director of the Medical and Sanitary Service, W. B. Johnson.
Treasurer, C. W. Leese.

Appointed Members.

Capt. R. H. W. Hughes, C.B., C.S.I., C.M.G., D.S.O., R.D., R.N.R., Director of Marine.
W. K. Duncombe, Comptroller of Customs,
Major W. Birrell-Gray, C.M.G., Administrator of the Colony.
E. R. J. Hussey, Director of Education.
G. S. Browne, Secretary for Native Affairs.

§Civil Establishment.

Governor and Staff.

Governor, Sir Graeme Thomson, G.C.M.G., K.C.B., £6,500., duty, £1,750l.
Private Secretary, J. I. Outram.
Aide-de-Camp, Lt. C. Gibson.

† Now Rt. Hon. Lord Lugard, P.C.
* Had the personal title of Governor-General.

§ In the following particulars of the Civil Establishment:

Scale A is as follows:—For those appointed before 1st October, 1923; £40l. for three years, then £10l. by 30l., £20l. by 40l., to £20l., with seniority allowance of £2l., from £20l.

For those appointed on or after 1st October, 1923; £40l., £45l., £50l., by 30l. to £20l., by 40l. to £20l., with seniority allowance of £2l., from £20l.

Scale B is as follows:—For those appointed before 1st October, 1923; £50l. for three years, then £70l. by 30l. to £20l. by 40l. to £60l., with seniority allowance of £2l., from £20l.

For those appointed on or after 1st October, 1923; £60l. for three years, then £10l. by 30l. to £20l., by 40l. to £60l., with seniority allowance of £2l., from £20l.

Scale C is as follows:—For those appointed before 1st October, 1923; £40l. by 30l. to £20l., by 40l. to £60l., with seniority allowance of £2l., from £20l.

For those appointed on or after 1st October, 1923; £80l. for three years, then £10l. by 30l. to £20l., by 40l. to £60l., with seniority allowance of £2l., from £20l.

Scale D is as follows:—For those appointed before 1st October, 1923; £40l. by 12l. to £60l.

For those appointed on or after 1st October, 1923; £60l. by 12l. to £60l.—the last increment being of 18l.

Scale E is as follows:—For those appointed before 1st October, 1923; £40l. by 12l. to £60l.

For those appointed on or after 1st October, 1923; £80l. by 12l. to £60l.—the last increment being 18l.

Scale F is as follows:—For those appointed before 1st October, 1923; £40l. by 12l. to £60l.

For those appointed on or after 1st October, 1923; £80l. by 12l. to £60l.—the last increment being 18l.
NIGERIA.

Nigerian Secretariat.

Chief Secretary to Government, Sir F. M. Baddeley, K.B.E., C.M.G., 2,400l., duty 600l.
Secretary for Native Affairs, G. S. Browne, 1,400l., duty, 280l.
Deputy Chief Secretary, A. C. M. Burns, C.M.G., 1,400l., duty, 280l.
Assistant Secretary for Native Affairs (vacant), 1,200l., duty, 240l.
Principal Assistant Secretary, K. L. Hall, 1,200l., duty, 240l.
Government Statistician, S. M. Jacob, 1,200l. and 240l., duty pay.
Assistant Secretaries, G. C. Whiteley, Major G. C. Stevenson, H. E. Priestman, G. D. Pitcairn, A. B. Mathews, Capt. J. H. H. Pollock, D. F. Heath, Scale B.
Assistant Secretaries, J. R. P. McEwen, N. A. B. Thomas, 375l., 425l., by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 720l. or 300l., 315l., 330l., 360l.-25l.-30l.-720l.
Office Assistant and Official Reporter, Miss I. A. Reading, Scale C, with maximum 720l.
Confidential Clerks, Scale A, with maximum of 600l., G. Meade, S. McWilliam.

Lieutenant-Governor Northern Provinces.

Lieutenant-Governor, H. R. Palmer, C.M.G., C.B.E., 2,400l., duty, 600l.

Secretariat, Northern Provinces.

Secretary, G. J. Lethem, 1,400l., duty, 280l.
Principal Assistant Secretary, A. D. Hamlyn, 1,200l., duty, 240l.
Anthropological Officer, Capt. C. R. Abraham (acting), duty, 200l.
Assistant Secretaries, F. le C. Belmar, A. E. V. Walwin, A. L. Milroy, M.C., Major W. T. Trench, M.C., G. Macdonald, M.C., Capt. W. S. E. Warran, M.C., J. D. Harford, Scale B.
Assistant Secretary, P. G. da Silva, 375l., 425l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 720l.
Confidential Clerk, Scale A, with maximum of 600l., W. W. Hoar.

Lieutenant-Governor Southern Provinces.

Lieutenant-Governor, C. W. Alexander, C.M.G., 2,400l., duty, 600l.

Secretariat, Southern Provinces and Colony.

Secretary, Major C. T. Lawrence, O.B.E., 1,400l., duty, 280l.
Principal Assistant Secretary, 1,200l., duty, 240l.
Assistant Secretaries, L. H. Boileau, C. B. Williams, M.C., Capt. S. T. Harvey, M.C., G. W. Hodgson, Scale B.
Assist. Secretary, J. B. A. Abadoo, 300l., 315l., 330l., 350l.-25l.-600l.-30l.-720l.
Confidential Clerk (vacant), Scale A, with maximum of 600l.

Judicial.

Chief Justice, D. Kingdon, 2,000l., duty, 400l.
Puise Judges, A. F. C. Webber, P. B. Petrides, H. S. Berkeley (and 1 vacant), 1,400l., duty, 280l.
Chief Registrar, M. T. Hincks, 960l., duty, 96l.

Police Magistracy.

Police Magistrates, J. C. Cotton, H. A. Young, K.C., E. O. Pretheroe, M.C. (and 1 vacant), 800l. by 40l. to 960l., duty, 72l. or 1/720l. by 40l. to 960l., duty, 72l.

Legal.

Attorney-General, A. C. V. Prior, 1,600l., duty, 320l.
Solicitor-General, J. C. Howard, 1,200l., duty, 240l.
Crown Counsel, C. W. V. Carey, H. W. B. Blackall, Capt. W. J. Fitzgerald, M.C., (1 vacant), 960l., duty, 96l. or 1/960l. by 40l. to 960l., duty, 72l.

Official Administrator and Public Trustee.

Official Administrator and Public Trustee, C. A. Gordon, 720l. by 40l. to 960l., duty, 72l.

ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE.

Staff Grade.—E. J. Arnett, C.M.G., Capt. W. A. Ross, C.M.G., G. W. Webster, M.B.E., J. C. C. P. Sciortino, Capt. P. Lonsdale, W. Buchanan Smith, M.C., Lt.-Col. R. H. Rowe, D.S.O., M.C., R.A., Major W. Birrel-Gray, C.M.G., Major C. T. Lawrence, O.B.E., E. M. Falk, H. H. Middleton, 1,400l., duty, 280l.

Class I, Grade I (1,200l., duty, 240l.)—
P. A. Talbot, F. H. Ingles, C. A. Woodhouse, F. B. Adams, Major T. A. G. Bugden, M.C., W. E. Hunt, C.B.E., Hon. H. B. Hermon Hodge, H. B. Butler, H. F. Backwell, H. O. Lindsell, F. P. Lynch, T. C. Newton, H. Morgan Owen, P. de Putron, W. Morgan, H. de B. Bewley, H. B. James, Major F. S. Williams-Thomas, D.S.O., H. G. Aveling, K. L. Hall, O. W. Firth, G. H. Findlay, H. F. Matthews, H. A. Prankerd, J. W. C. Rutherford, E. S. Pemberton, A. E. F. Murray, Capt. E. B. Wauton, J. G. Lawton, H. T. B. Dew, A. D. Hamlyn, H. L. Ward-Price.

Class II, Scale B:—
P. J. Gardner, H. M. Brice-Smith, J. D. Thomson, A. L. Weir, F. le C. Belmar, J. N. Smith, R. W. M. Dundas, G. S. Hughes, V. F. Biscoe, A. R. Whitman, J. S. Ross, M. Macgregor, J. H. M. Molyneux, C. N. Monsell, Major H. Webber, G. E. Murphy, C. J. Chaytor, Capt. P. E. M. Richards, R. V. R. Rae, F. E. Knapp, R. H. Lapage, R. L. Archer, J. H. Kirk, H. D. de la Mothe, F. S. Purchas, Capt. J. H. de Herez Smyth, L. H. Boileau, G. V. Evans, H. N. Nevins, Major D. S. Cook, Capt. B. W. Macpherson, G. G. Feasey, F. de F. Daniel, H. Maddocks, B. M. Carkeek, W. O. P. Rosedale, R. S. Davies, L. S. Ward, K. A. B. Cochrane, N. J. Brooke, G. W. Izard, G. C. Whiteley, C. R. Walker, L. H. Shelton, G. G. Shute, J. R. Patterson, R. R. Lawrence, E. J. Price, M. D. W. Jeffreys, W. M. Hyne, A. E. V. Walwyn, H. F. M. White, F. Ferguson, R. L. Payne, E. G. Bryan, W. H. Lloyd, H. M. Lloyd, Lieut. E. K. Milbourne, W. Nash, S. W. Walker, E. C. Pickwoad, D. M. H. Beck, M.C., P. G. Harris, Capt. P. E. Lewis, M.C., Lt.-Comdr. J. H. Carrow, D.S.C., R.N., Capt. E. W. Thompsonstone, M.C., Capt. E. J. A. Kelly, M.C., F. B. Carr, M. H. Martindale, P. G. Butcher, Capt. E. S. Walsh, W. R. R. Ffrench, D.S.O., M.C., Capt. F. G. B. Reynolds, Capt. T. M. Macleod, O. H. Best, H. N. Cleverly, Major H. C. Stevenson, M.C., Capt. H. Waddington, Capt. K. V. Hanitch, Capt. J. P. Smith, C. J. A. Gregg, Capt. N. C. Denton, Capt. F. C. Rovce, Capt. R. O. Ramage, J. B.

†Revised scale for officers offered appointment on or after 1st October, 1923.
For Scales A to F, see footnote on page 382.
Welman, Capt. H. R. Oke, Major B. Glasson, M.C., P. W. D. Thurley, Capt. J. J. Emberton, M.C., Major J. Wann, Major W. G. Cragg, D.S.O., F. M. Noad, N. M. Jones, C. B. Coleman, Capt. E. A. Miller, D. P. J. O’Connor, Major R. L. Bowen, M.C., Capt. H. P. James, Capt. J. Ashley, H. E. Priestman, Capt. H. Fox, Capt. S. S. John, M.C., R. D. Ross, E. V. S. Thomas, R. L. A. Underwood, M.C., H. H. Wilkinson, Capt. C. G. McKenzie, A. L. Milroy, M.C., J. Jackson, G. B. Williams, M.C., R. F. P. Orme, M.C., E. Burgess, G. G. Harris, M.C., E. K. Featherstone, T. Hoskyns-Abrahall, G. M. Clifford, M.C., E. N. Mylius, R. J. Hook, D.F.C., Capt. C. N. A. Clarke, B. E. Sharwood Smith, J. C. Porter, M.C., T. J. Southern, Capt. R. M. Downes, M.C., Capt. A. R. A. Dickins, Major R. C. Sumner, M.C., A. A. Cullen, Major R. Logan, A. F. B. Bridges, Capt. J. A. Mackenzie, M.C., Capt. G. A. Williams, M.B.E., Capt. J. C. F. Pender, M.C., E. G. Hawkesworth, M.C., A. E. Tweed, R. C. Niven, M.C., Capt. H. C. MacMichael, Capt. G. P. Wilkinson, I. F. Macdonald, Capt. J. N. Hill, Capt. T. A. Izard, Capt. G. H. Hudson, Capt. E. J. Saltwell, M.C., Capt. A. P. Pullen, C. B. Wolfe, Capt. S. T. Harvey, M.C., P. M. Riley, J. W. Hartley, Capt. L. C. Schlotel, M.C., Capt. R. R. Oakley, M.C., C. W. Scott, Major C. M. Browne, O.B.E., M.C., Major L. Sealy-King, F. G. C. Dickinson, A. C. Cooper, J. C. Drummond-Hay, P. F. Masterton-Smith, M.C., Capt. H. S. Bridel, Capt. P. A. Tegetmeier, C. G. Ames, B. J. A. Matthews, I. W. E. Dods, E. R. W. Gillmor, Lieut. J. M. B. Homfray, M.C., G. D. Pitcairn, Capt. H. D. Tupper-Carey, Lieut. J. A. Bulger, Capt. J. D. Symee, Capt. D. J. Sheridan, L. A. C. Helbert, J. R. P. McEwen, A. B. Mathews, A. C. C. Swayne, Capt. V. C. M. Kelsey, Major F. Chadwick, D.S.O., M.C., Major W. T. Trench, M.C., L. L. Cantle, Capt. E. F. G. Haig, L. E. H. Fellows, Capt. J. H. B. de Montmorency, Lieut. M. V. Hoyle, R.N., Capt. R. W. Westmacott, Capt. J. Cook, E. L. D. Bowron, Capt. V. Fox-Strangways, D. A. F. Shute, Lieut. S. E. Johnson, R.N., Capt. J. H. H. Pollock, Capt. E. J. Douglas, G. E. McCabe, Lieut-Comdr. J. G. Puke-Nott, R.N., Capt. G. Macdonald, M.C., H. B. Leonard, M.C., C. J. Pleas, J. S. Smith, G. E. W. Ward, P. G. da Silva, Capt. P. R. Foulkes-Roberts, M.C., H. B. Sheppard, W. M. Bridges, C. M. Barlow, M.C., W. J. W. Norcott, R. L. B. Maidan, W. M. McCreevy, L. H. Goble, A. Leeming, H. M. S. Brown, D. F. Heath, J. W. Jewell, R. J. Lynch, Capt. P. B. Hebbert, A. T. E. Marsh, J. I. Outram, L. T. Chubb, J. G. Cary, E. V. H. Toovey, Capt. R. C. Abraham, Capt. G. D. C. Money, M.C., G. F. T. Colby, M. V. Backhouse, R. B. Kerr, D. E. R. M. Lambert, S. L. Knight, Capt. L. N. Reed, M.C., Capt. N. A. C. Weir, Capt. W. S. E. Warran, M.C., R. C. S. Stanley, G. W. Hodgson, M. H. W. Swabey, Capt. E. C. Clegg, M.C., Capt. J. N. Scott, Capt. H. Mercer, M.C., D.F.C., Capt. B. L. A. Kennett, Lieut. H. A. H. Doelberg, H. L. M. Butcher, B. M. MacFarlane, T. E. Purchas, Capt. J. Skelly, Capt. W. J. W. Cheeseman, M.C., E. H. F. Gorges, J. V. Dewhurst, G. I. Stockley, B. G. Stone, E. A. Carr, S. A. S. Leslie, A. S. Horsley, G. H. Payton, D. C. Fletcher, D. F. Cary, H. C. Gill, K. J. Bryant, R. E. Beevor, G. R. Osborn, C. V. Williams, I. V. Hoskins, J. D. Harford.

For Scales A to F, see footnote on page 383.

† Revised scale for officers offered appointment on or after 1st October, 1922.
Treasury.

Treasurer, C. W. Leese, 1,500l., duty, 300l.
Deputy Treasurer, A. H. Hodges, 1,100l., duty, 220l.
Senior Assistant Treasurers, A. L. Darrell, F. C. Farquhar, and B. M. Drayton, 960l., duty, 96l.
Assistant Treasurers and Treasury Assistants, H. P. Fyfe, S. McCullagh, W. S. Phillips, R. D. Johnson, S. R. Marlow, A. M. Bury, Capt. L. Tester, M.C., M. S. Lewis, R. le Mare, B. M. Stanton, J. O. Williams, S. J. Butler, Capt. E. H. O. Keates, M.C., S. E. Avery, R. Temple, H. S. Jervois, F. G. Lloyd, N. L. L. D. de Garston, R. P. Errington, E. S. Sherwood, Scale A.
Treasury Assistants, J. G. T. O’B. Torto, H. W. Thomas, 375l., 425l., by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 720l.

Customs.

Comptroller, W. K. Duncombe, 1,400l., duty, 280l.
Deputy-Controller, (vacant), 1,100l., duty, 220l.
Senior Collectors, J. D. B. Sealy, W. Moyes, 960l., duty, 96l., 1 vacant.
Collectors and Supervisors, K. S. Martin, E. N. Howlett, J. L. Thorburn, N. H. Cox, E. C. B. Bonyun, C. D. Blayney, F. A. Makin, C. F. C. Everett, A. M. Jarvis, C. R. Miles, D. L. F. Manson, L. G. Perkins, A. H. Morrison, W. J. E. Rodwell, J. A. C. Cobb, R. L. Wroughton, H. M. Lucie Smith, G. J. Bonavia, Scale A.
Supervisor, (vacant), 325l., 375l., by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 720l.
Wharfinger, A. G. Martin, Scale F.

Marine.

Director, Capt. R. H. W. Hughes, C.B., C.S.I., C.M.G., D.S.O., R.D., R.N.R., 1,400l., duty, 280l.
Deputy-Controller, Comdr. L. J. Hall, O.B.E., R.D., R.N.R., 1,100l., duty, 220l.
Superintendent Engineer, J. Sullivan, 1,100l., duty, 220l.
Principal Marine Officers, Comdr. J. H. Fairweather, D.S.O., R.D., R.N.R., Comdr. C. J. Webb, R.D., R.N.R., Comdr. F. R. Hemsted, R.D., R.N.R., 960l., duty 96l.
Marine Officers, Grade I, Comdr. R. H. Rojas, R.N.R., Lieut.-Comdr. F. H. Drake-Clarke, R.N.R., Lieut. A. V. P. Ivey, R.N.R., Lieut. G. Tait, R.N.R., Lieut. G. W. Trinick, R.D., R.N.R., vacant (2), 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l.
Marine Officers, Grade I, Commr. R. H. Rojas, R.N.R., Lieut. C. J. Webb, R.N.R., Lieut.-Commr. F. H. Drake-Clarke, R.N.R., Lieut. A. V. P. Ivey, R.N.R., Lieut. G. Tait, R.N.R., Lieut. G. W. Trinick, R.D., R.N.R., 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l.
Marine Officers, Grade II, Capt. J. N. Wilson, A.F.C., R.A.F., Lieut.-Commr. M. M. Johnson, R.N., Lieut. E. A. Bennett, R.N.R., Lieut. G. S. E. Bird, R.N., S. H. Butler, R.N.R., Lieut. E. B. Canser, R.N., Lieut.-Commr. F. L. de Spon, R.N.R., Lieut. J. Jolly, R.N.R., B. G. Murdoch, late Temp.-Lieut. J. S. Cave, R.N.R., G. K. Austin, late Temp.-Lieut. C. E. Bell, R.N.R., Lieut. P. Hayward, R.N.R., E. P. Nurse, late Temp.-Lieut. W. Shearer, R.N.R., Lieut. H. J. Perks, R.E. (R. of O.), Comdr. F. E. Woodward, R.D., R.N.R., Lieut.-Comdr. A. R. Hair, R.N.R., T. P. Griffith, G. P. Williams, R. J. Mather, J. H. Hall, J. F. Blower, A. L. E. Dennis, late Temp.-Lieut. T. B. Webster, R.N.R., T. Bowditch, Lieut. W. E. George, R.N., A. Skinner, D. Jones, H. L. Cole, C. J. A. Coughlan, Lieut. D. L. Jones, R.N.R., Lieut. A. A. Martin, R.N.R., Sub-Lieut. L. E. Foster, L. Campton, V. W. Martin, S. C. Morley, 440l. by 20l. to 480l., by 30l. to 720l., or 400l. by 20l. to 480l. by 30l. to 720l.

Principal Engineers, late Temp.-Capt. T. B. Dawson, R.E., L. J. Lee, A.M.I.M.E., 960l., duty 96l.
Engineers, Grade I, J. G. Treearn, late Temp.-Lieut. G. A. Smeaton, R.E., C. Hall, Lieut. F. Smith, R.E. (R. of O.), Engr.-Lt.-Comdr. E. Other, R.N., 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l.
Reclamation Officer, late Temp.-Engr.-Lt.-Comdr. W. D. Bisset, O.B.E., R.N., 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l. and 100l. charge allowance.
Senior Pilot, T. Evans, 700l.
Junior Pilot, A. J. Wright, F. E. Brooks, W. H. Suffolk, 660l.
Chief Accountant, J. A. Brownell, 960l., duty pay, 96l.
Senior Accountant, C. S. Honey, 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 800l., with 72l. seniority allowance from 720l.
Accountants and Assistant Accountants, W. J. Harrowell, C. W. Hayward, F. E. Wells, W. L. Whitehouse, F. P. Reid, N. Turner, W. C. Watson, Scale A, with maximum of 720l.
One Assistant Accountant, B. H. Johnson, 300l., 315l., 330l., 350l., 263l., 375l.
Chief Storekeeper, vacant, 600l. by 30l. to 720l. duty pay 60l.
Naval Architect, J. Whitehead, 960l. and 96l. duty pay.
Technical Instructor, Engr.-Comdr. S. R. Baker, R.N., Scale C.
Tug Masters, A. W. Flack, H. A. Westcott, Temp.-Sub. Lt. R. R. Quinn, D.S.M., R.N., L. H. Brown, W. H. Sizer, 400l. by 16l. to 560l.
Personal Assistant, M. R. Harris, 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l.
Engineers, Grade II, Engr.-Lt.-Comdr. C. A. L. Booth, R.N., W.-Engr. R. M. McMurrieh, R.N.R., late Temp.-Capt. T. W. Penington, R.E., late Temp.-Lt.-Comdr. C. L. Prowse, R.N.V.R., G. F. Porter, A. H. Jones, G. H. Campbell, A. B. Mack, J. H. Calder, R. H. Jacobsen, M. C. Collis, P. H. Laval, A. J. Ogilvie, J. A. Gibson, J. H. Hyslop, W. E. McDade, J. A. Hendry, Engr.-Lt.-Comdr. F. P. Clarke, R.N.R., C. W. Stanbridge, Eng.-Lt. H. H. Marshall, R.N.R., J. Simpson, J. J. M. Johnston, G. F. Goodwin, late Temp.-Capt. A. B. Waters, R.E., C. W. M. Turner, Lieut. F. W. Richardson, R.E., R. S. Oakley, G. R. Farrington, A. H. Heron, T. T. Wilson, W. Scott, R. Arno, G. H. Roberts, E. Briggs, J. A. K. Oldland, T. F. Richards, F. L. Algar, C. A. Webster, L. C. Cox, W. R. L. Pretty, D. M. Aitken, C. Curran, E. H. Jones, J. Begbie, S. G. Hayward, W. H. Tyerman, E. J. K. Herbe, R. C. MacNab, A. B. Wenlock, G. E. Nicholls, vacant (1), 440l. by 20l. to 480l. by 30l. to 720l. or 400l. by 20l. to 480l. by 30l. to 720l.
Chief Foremen, T. H. Court, W. Owen, 600l.
Senior Foremen, T. G. Driver, T. J. Goodings, R. Easey, H. W. Wright, 500l. by 12l. to 560l.
Foremen—Shipwrights, A. A. Child, T. Myers, J. Mitchell, Boilermakers, J. Brown, J. H. Holden, S. L. Jeffery, Fitters, R. Reid, R. B. Sally, J. T. Ferryman, Ship Platers, J. M. Groves, J. Newman, Turner, R. J. Esler, Scale F.
Beachmasters, H. Williams, A. J. Flack, vacant (1), Scale F.
Superintendent of Accounts, (vacant), 400l. by 20l. to 500l.

For Scales A to F, see footnote on page 382.
†Plus 72l. seniority allowance from 720l.
Harbour Works, Lagos.

Port Engineer, Major J. E. Bostock, O.B.E., 1,400l., duty, 280l.
Deputy Port Engineer, G. E. B. Coulker, M.C., 1,100l., duty, 220l., and 100l. personal allowance.
Senior Assistant Engineers, Major P. P. O. Smith, 900l. by 40l. to 920l., duty, 72l.
Assistant Engineer, L. G. M. Lyon, 600l. by 30l. to 720l., by 40l. to 920l.
Assistant Engineer, A. M. Burke, 480l. by 30l. to 720l., by 40l. to 920l. and Scale C.
Senior Accountant and Storekeeper, P. J. Robb, 600l. by 30l. to 720l., by 40l. to 800l.†
Assistant Accountant and Storekeeper, A. Noyes (temp. agreement), Scale A with maximum 800l.
Quarry Superintendent, vacant, 600l.
Inspector of Works, W. H. W. Houston, 600l.
Foreman Diner, A. E. McCarty, 500l. by 12l. to 560l.
Foreman of Works, S. Robinson, P. G. Brazier, E. G. Horton, R. Tunley, A. M. Winters, A. J. Wells, W. E. Heselton, 500l. by 12l. to 660l.
Quarryman, J. Ford, 500l. by 12l. to 560l.
Mechanical Foreman, C. Reynolds, 400l. by 12l. to 500l.

New Carter Bridge Construction.

1st Assistant Engineer, W. S. Harvey, 720l. by 40l. to 920l.
2nd Assistant Engineer, J. C. P. Bell, 510l. by 30l. to 720l.
Bridge Constructor, T. H. MoIsack, 600l. by 30l. to 720l.
Accountant, F. D. Bellew, 600l. by 30l. to 720l.
Foremen, W. J. Rollin, I. G. Radmore, C. Frances, J. Smith, J. Low.

Harbour Works, Port Harcourt.

Resident Engineer, H. W. Lawson, 1,050l., duty, 210l.
Assistant Engineer, L. S. Kingston, 480l.
Accountant and Storekeeper, F. R. Duke, 510l. by 30l. to 600l.
Mechanical Foreman, C. G. Tomlinson, 500l. by 12l. to 560l.
Foreman of Works, R. G. Smith, 500l. by 12l. to 560l.
Foreman Reinforced Concrete Construction, S. R. Pine, 500l. by 12l. to 560l.

Police.

Inspector-General of Police, Northern and Southern Provinces, C. W. Duncan, 1,400l., duty 280l.

Northern Provinces.

Deputy Inspector-General, F. S. Merrick, 960l., duty, 96l.
Commissioners and Assistant Commissioners, Capt. A. K. Rickards, Lieut. G. H. Farrell, S. H. Grantham, F. B. Smith, Capt. E. C. Nottingham, M.C., Capt. A. J. P. Mateer, Capt. H. B. Griffiths, R. T. Johnson, Capt. A. J. Wilson, Capt. J. R. Anderson, Capt. G. Callow, D.S.O., M.C., Major R. G. H. Wilson, D.S.O., M.C., Capt. J. T. Spender, D.C.M., L. S. Clinton, M.C., R. S. Shuel, A. C. Lack, G. A. V. D. Bossiere, V. D. K. Marley, Capt. F. B. Sharp, M.B.E., F. W. Syer, vacant (3), Scale A.

Southern Provinces.

Deputy Inspector-General, Major G. H. Walker, D.S.O., 1,000l., duty, 200l.
Senior Commissioners, R. C. A. Cavendish, Capt. R. D. Nunn (vacancy), 960l. and 96l. duty pay.
Commissioners and Assistant Commissioners, Capt. E. T. P. Ford, Capt. H. W. R. Armstrong, M.C., Major G. N. Faux-Powell, R. A. H. Wortham, T. H. Wilson, H. M. King, Capt. N. S. Flint, M.C., Capt. R. W. H. Ballantine, R. E. Foulger, Capt. T. H. Irving, C. W. Clark, W. M. Boreford, T. P. Phillips, M.C., R. H. Maunsell-Eyre, T. V. W. Finlay, H. Harris, Capt. E. C. Gilbert, D. L. Hill, L. G. Matthews, J. B. G. Austin, R. V. D. White, A. V. D. Ince, A. T. G. Trumble, F. W. Tristram, J. F. Faithful, K. M. Leighton, C. H. Ward, E. Harling, R. J. P. McLaughlan, G. F. Evelyn-Wright, C. H. F. Apthorpe, H. C. Platt, J. L. W. Hodgson, Major J. W. Garden, D.S.O., M.C., Capt. G. M. I. Blackburn, M.C., Capt. J. L. Leith, M.C., E. S. Morgan, J. P. Phipps, R. G. Henderson, Scale A.

Superintendents (Motor Traffic Branch), T. M. Jukes, H. L. Wilkins, R. Winter, D.C.M., M.M., H. W. Hayllor, Scale F.
Superintendent (Bandmaster), H. Field, 400l. by 12l. to 500l.
Superintendent, Lagos Fire Brigade, C. G. Kusper, 400l. by 12l. to 500l.

Forestry.

Director, J. R. Ainalie, 1,400l., duty 280l.
Deputy Director (vacant), 1,100l., duty 220l.
Senior Conservators, J. Bunny, S. Lanchian, C. F. Vetch, 960l., duty 96l.
Conservators and Assistant Conservators, Capt. W. B. Hellard, H. V. Lely, T. G. Wood, D. F. Chesters, A. H. W. Weir, T. H. Espley, L. Nicholls, M.C., W. M. Robertson, F. T. Brand, G. R. G. Kerr, F. S. Collier, R. A. Sykes, G. C. R. Gray, D. R. Rosevear, A. T. Johnstone, J. W. Costello, W. A. Fairbairn, E. C. W. Tuke, G. W. Russell, A. S. Thornewill, J. E. Taylor, J. Smith, R. F. Butler-Cole, G. F. Cameron, P. S. Laws, J. Dundas, R. G. M. Willan, R. D. Catterall, R. V. H. Porter, vacant (15), Scale C.
Headquarters Assistant to the Director of Forests, Capt. H. C. Tebbutt, Scale C.
Sylviculturists, J. D. Kennedy, W. D. MacGregor, 600l. to 920l.
Forest Engineer, J. M. Sleigh, 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l.†
Forest Utilisation Officer, W. B. G. Mitchell, 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l.‡
Wood Seasoning Officer, J. C. Mallam, 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l.‡

Superintendent Victoria Botanic Gardens, T. D. Maitland, O.B.E., 600l. to 920l.
Assistant Superintendent Victoria Botanic Gardens, W. E. Barnett, 480l., 480l., 480l. by 30l. to 720l. by 12l. to 560l.
Foresters, Grade I, W. S. Nichol, P. Cameron, 500l.
Foresters, Grade II, W. G. Reid, W. D. Petley, K. G. Littlejohn, R. E. Kidd, Scale F.

Prisons, Northern Provinces.

Director, vacant (see Police).
Superintendent, J. H. Dixon*, 540l. by 16l. to 600l.
Assistant Superintendents, E. J. Wilton, M.M.*, W. A. S. Tingle, 440l. by 12l. to 500l. or 400l. by 12l. to 500l.

Prisons, Southern Provinces.

Director, F. W. Garvey, 1,000l., duty, 200l.
Deputy Director of Prisons, 800l. by 40l. to 900l., Capt. V. L. Mabb, M.C., duty 80l.
Inspector, vacant, †600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 800l., duty 72l.

For Scales A to F, see footnote on page 332.

* To retain titles of Senior Superintendent and Superintendent respectively.
† Revised scale for officers offered appointment on or after 1st October, 1923.
‡ Plus 72l. seniority allowance from 720l.
Superintendents, Capt. E. S. Lilley, Capt. W. A. V. Neill, Major J. P. Magrane, Capt. C. T. Bailey, 600l. by 30l. to 720l., or 7640l. by 30l. to 720l.

Assistant Superintendents, 1st Grade, C. J. McCarthy, P. G. Noott, C. Henley, G. W. Reed, G. H. Lanning, Scale F.

Assistant Superintendents, 2nd Grade, S. H. Clark, P. Shannon, T. J. Brown, R. K. D. Lace, 400l. to 500l. or 440l. by 12l. to 500l.

Agriculture.

Director, O. T. Faulkner, C.M.G., 1,600l., duty, 320l.

Deputy Director, P. H. Lamb, 1,100l., duty, 220l.

Assistant Directors, A. J. Findlay, vacant (1), 1,060l., duty 210l.

Deputy Assistant Directors, J. O’N. Hewitt, M.C., Capt. J. R. Mackie, 980l., duty 96l.

Entomologists, F. D. Golding, O. B. Lean, 600l. by 30l. to 720l., by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

Mycologists, T. Laycock, vacant (1), 600l. by 30l. to 720l., by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

Agricultural Chemists, C. H. Wright, W. E. de B. Diamond, K. T. Hartley, M. Greenwood, D. Manlove, W. A. Watson, vacant (1), 600l. by 30l. to 720l., by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

Botanists, C. J. Lewin, J. K. Mayo, A. G. G. Hill, E. H. G. Smith, 600l. by 30l. to 720l., by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

Superintendents, H. Roebuck, Capt. W. B. Dowson, A. G. Beattie, D. H. Urquhart, O. S. Swainson, J. W. R. Podger, J. D. Brown, R. B. Shorter, Capt. H. G. Poynter, I. E. James, E. T. Holmes, B. G. Owen, J. R. V. Smyth, J. L. B. Kinnaird, A. de K. Frampton, D. H. Brown, G. W. G. Frigge, J. F. Ward, J. W. Wallace, J. H. Palmer, R. M. Davies, O. J. Voelcker, G. N. K. Turnbull, E. W. Leach, D. Thornton, F. E. Buckley, C. B. Taylor, L. P. Henderson, K. D. R. Davis, vacant (2), Scale C.

Schoolmasters, R. J. Newberry, H. Earnshaw, 480l., 510l. by 30l. to 720l.

Agricultural Engineer, vacant, 840l. by 40l. to 920l.

Superintending Produce Inspectors, E. MacL. Watson, A. H. Young, 700l.

Deputy Superintending Produce Inspectors, D. B. Sabiston, vacant (1), 500l.

Produce Inspectors, D. P. Stanfield, J. F. B. Watling, H. E. Woods, F. R. Passmore, J. P. Walters, M. C. M. Bridges, J. C. Bytheway, D. W. Irons, J. R. Brown, J. G. Brash, L. J. Jackson, N. W. Hardwick, J. K. Paile, F. S. Philip, H. G. Hudney, J. R. Vernon, R. M. Steven, D. A. Langdon, R. H. Cowan, C. H. Clifford, 400l. and 440l.

Stock Farm.

Superintendents, A. W. Anderson, J. G. Reynard, vacant (1), 1 at 720l. by 40l. to 920l., 2 at 480l., 480l., 480l., 510l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l.

Veterinary Department.

Chief Veterinary Officer, Capt. W. W. Henderson, 1,200l., duty, 240l.

Deputy Chief Veterinary Officer, J. A. Griffiths, 1,000l. and 200l. duty pay.

Veterinary Officers, G. E. Owen, R. W. Sainsbury, M.R.C.V.S., W. V. Earnshaw, M.R.C.V.S., W. G. Beaton, R. Dunwoody, N. Clarke, T. F. O’Brien, R. Coulthard, J. H. B. Beat, T. D. Lloyd-Jones, N. Burke, J. Heard, vacant (1), 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

Pathologist, G. N. A. Hall, 660l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 960l.

Assistant Pathologist, vacant, 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l.

Veterinary Research Officer, F. H. Manley, 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l.

Stockmen, F. V. Kelway, A. A. James, W. G. Phelps, A. C. Barnett, P. Paxton, J. H. W. de St. Croix, T. M. Bennett, T. J. Stevens, I. P. Robinson, W. E. A. Cook, W. E. Hill, F. S. Parker, Scale F.

Laboratory Assistants, J. Ford, L. H. Saunders, S. V. Fryer, S. F. Saunders, W. H. Heynes, Scale F.

Overseer, F. G. Chapman, Scale F.

Mechanic, H. J. Mortimer, Scale F.

Medical.

Director of Medical and Sanitary Service, W. B. Johnson, 1,300l., duty 360l.

Deputy Director of Medical and Sanitary Service, H. T. Palmer, 1,500l., duty 300l.

Deputy Director, Sanitary Service, G. J. Pirie, 1,500l., duty 300l.

Assistant Directors of Medical and Sanitary Service, T. M. R. Leonard, D.S.O., T. L. Craig, 1,400l., duty 280l.

Assistant Directors of Medical Service, S. Goodbrand, J. Y. Wood, L. W. Davies, O.B.E., J. W. Thomson, 1,300l., duty 260l.

Assistant Director of Sanitary Service, W. Allan, 1,300l., duty 260l.

Specialists, H. H. Stewart, E. C. Braithwaite, F. Ross, H. R. M. Ferguson, vacant (1), 1,300l., duty 260l.

Senior Medical Officers, G. F. Forde, A. J. M. Crichton, R. H. Nolan, K. K. Grieve, W. E. Glover, C. G. Grey, C. Kelsall, W. E. S. Digby, E. Gibson, M.C., R. H. Miller, vacant (1), 1,000l. by 50l. to 1,150l., seniority allowance 100l.

Pathologist, H. Morrison, G. W. St. C. Ramsay, W. E. McCulloch, vacant (3), 800l. by 40l. to 960l., 72l. seniority pay and 150l. staff pay.

Research Medical Officer, R. F. McCall Burnie, 800l. by 40l. to 960l., 72l. seniority pay and 150l. staff pay.

Medical Officers, B. J. Courtney, W. G. Cobb, D.S.O., E. B. L. Anderson, B. W. F. Wood, H. North, C. Mackay, 1,000l. by 50l. to 1,600l., and 100l. seniority allowance; J. R. C. Stephens, L. N. Lee, G. E. Craig, M. Morison, W. J. McClintock, G. D. K. Waldron, M.C., J. B. Steven, N. A. Duce-Sharp, D. G. F. Moore, C. J. Sharp, E. W. Adcock, R. P. Crawford, Major H. B. Lee, D.S.O., M.C., E. G. A. Doh, P. J. Cafrey, F. McGrath, J. Naudi, E. J. Crawford, C. E. Sharp, W. Nelson, C. Wilson, J. H. Pasqual, F. Herbert King, H. C. E. Chantler, P. H. Rawson, H. B. Boucher, T. James, N. S. Williams, G. Clark, D. M. Mackay, T. Cullen, E. H. L. Le Clezio, H. M. O. Lester, G. Sanders, I. G. MacGregor, J. C. Paisley, C. S. J. Kearney, T. O’Carroll, T. B. M’Aleer, J. S. Robinson, G. Simpson, J. S. Oliphant, W. S. Ormiston, J. D. Horasburgh, A. J. Murray, L. H. Thomas, G. G. Brander, F. L. G. Selby, A. E. F. Forbes, B. G. T. Elmes, R. K. Phillips, G. V. Fiddian, R. N. Hall, E. I. Bieber, F. Kane, C. W. Hope-Gill, G. Shearer, D. W. McLaren, H. M. Soar, C. W. F. Mackay, H. S. Weir, A. H. Bean, T. H. I. Potta, W. H. Emble, A. C. Lovett-Campbell, D. C. G. Hanlon, G. Winter, C. E. Libert, G. E. Dodds, G. M. M. Menzies, W. Hunter, J. G. Green, D. C. Bell, J. Crawford, W. C. Dale, J. L. Lochhead, W. McLelland, J. H. Young, J. A. L. Innes, G. H. Henry.

† Revised scales for officers offered appointment on or after 1st October, 1923.

For Scales A to F, see footnote on page 382.
T. Simpson, F. W. W. Fox, F. C. Cassidy, C. P. Murray, R. L. J. Le Clezio, L. B. Haye, vacant (5), 660l. by 30l. to 720l., by 40l. to 960l., with seniority allowance of 72l. at 720l.

Superintendent, Dispensers' Training School, G. Taylor, 800l. by 40l. to 960l.

Assistant Superintendent, Dispensers' Training School, E. Arthur, 400l. by 15l. to 430l., by 30l. to 600l.

Lady Medical Officers, Miss H. S. Keer, Miss B. E. Ebden, Miss G. Lowe, 680l. by 30l. to 720l., by 40l. to 960l.

Tsetse Fly Investigator, Lt. Lloyd, 1,000l. by 50l. to 1,200l.

African Medical Officers, A. B. W. Smart, S. L. A. Manuwa, R. G. A. Savage, vacant (3), 500l. by 25l. to 800l. and 600l. by 30l. to 720l.

Junior Medical Officers, L. E. R. Henshaw, J. T. Femi-Pearse, vacant (1), 400l.

Senior Sanitary Officers, G. C. M. Davies, M.C., J. A. A. Duncan, G. B. Walker, J. Cauchi, G. R. Waller, 1,060l. by 50l. to 1,200l., duty, 210l.

Sanitary Inspectors, Grade I, N. W. J. Turnbull, T. H. Smitherman, 500l. by 12l. to 560l.

Sanitary Inspectors, Grade II, W. R. Church, A. B. Prebious, B. B. Bevan, M. E. Grebe, S. Harvey, J. R. McCarthy, W. F. Morgan, W. Sellers, J. Y. Brown, W. D. Waugh, W. E. A. Crozier, E. O. Mannans, C. T. O'Connell, J. Ford, T. N. Marley, R. Forest, A. W. Hamilton, H. E. Pilkington, H. Thompson, J. McM. Devitt, R. Bowrey, J. J. Murray, J. D. Bunkall, vacant (9), Scale F.

Medical Officers of Health, J. Macdonald, N. S. Turnbull, J. G. S. Turner, W. C. Smith, A. Robertson, H. P. Fowler, R. C. Jones, vacant (6), 800l. by 40l. to 960l., and staff pay 150l.

Government Dentist, C. N. Pearson, C. D. Cunningham, 660l. by 30l. to 720l., by 40l. to 960l., and seniority allowance of 72l. at 720l.

Assistant Accountants, W. J. Bocking, H. S. A. Thomas, 400l. by 15l. to 430l., 450l. by 30l. to 720l., and 300l., 315l. to 330l., 350l. by 25l. to 575l.

Office Assistant, C. G. Hearn, 400l. to 600l.

Nursing Staff.

Senior Nursing Sisters, F. A. King, E. O'Harn, L. Marragh, W. Norwood, B. Humle, E. N. Price, M. Slaney, M. Macdonald, A. E. Blakemore, 600l. by 30l. to 600l., duty, 40l.

Nursing Sisters, E. Cordiner, M. A. L. Gummow, I. W. Dron, F. Roche, C. M. Caulfield, J. M. Garvey, E. Patchell, L. S. Buist, R. Baldock, W. C. Evans, B. Skerritt, E. Taylor-Smith, K. E. Jones, M. A. A. Swynnerton, A. F. McTavish, K. W. Storrier, H. K. Donaldson, C. A. Maule, M. G. Duke, M. Earl, K. L. Cowan, M. Butler, V. S. McAndrew, A. V. Marke, M. P. Steele, J. J. Innes, M. G. Morgan, M. E. Sanderson, G. E. Taylor, A. E. Randles, J. Mitchell, M. O. Motta, J. P. Aldworth, M. D. Honeywill, J. M. Bell, G. M. Lloyd, N. M. C. Burns, A. V. Sullivan, B. Wooldridge, N. Harling, D. Prime, E. E. James, B. D. Haigh, K. C. Brown, C. B. Buchan, H. B. Barclay, vacant (5), 350l., 400l., 415l. by 15l. to 430l., by 20l. to 480l., and charge allowance at 40l.

Sergeants, W. A. Maynam, S. A. Stowe, Scale F.

Male Nurse (vacant), Scale D.

Hospital Dispensers and Storekeepers, E. G. Stoneham, G. H. Green, E. Attfield, 400l. by 12l. to 460l.

Medical Research Institute.

Director and Bacteriologist, A. Connal, 1,400l., duty, 280l.

Assistant Bacteriologists, E. C. Smith, J. A. Young, 800l. by 40l. to 960l., with 72l. seniority allowance, and 160l. staff pay.

Biochemist (vacant), 800l. by 40l. to 960l.

Protozoologist (vacant), 800l. by 40l. to 960l.

Immunologist, R. D. Mackenzie, 800l. by 40l. to 960l.

Entomologist, A. W. Taylor, 600l. by 30l. to 700l. by 40l. to 920l.

Technical Assistants, E. F. Hines, F. W. Randall, vacant (1), Scale F.

Analyst.

Government Analyst, Capt. A. B. Hobson, 600l. by 30l. to 720l., by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

Assistant Government Analyst, R. K. Hardy, 600l. by 30l. to 720l., by 40l. to 920l.

Water Examiner, A. W. Burtt, 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l.*

Land.

Commissioner of Lands, Lt.-Col. R. H. Rowe, D.S.O., 1,400l., 280l. duty pay.

Deputy Commissioner of Lands (vacant), 1,200l., 240l. duty pay.

Land Officers, Major F. S. Williams-Thomas, D.S.O., F. E. Knapp, Major D. S. Cook, H. B. Shepheard, Capt. G. Darby, O.B.E., M.C.

Senior Executive Officer (vacant), 720l. by 40l. to 920l.

Executive Officer, H. R. Spencer, M.M., J. T. N. Caulickor, J. J. Hunter, M.M., F. J. C. Palmour, Scale A.

Chief Plans Officer (vacant), Scale C.

Plans Officers, A. G. E. Sly, F. D. Dawson, T. P. Allison, F. E. Savory, Scale C.

Town Planning Officer, A. J. Thompson, 1,400l. and 280l. duty pay.

Assistant Town Planning Officer, R. B. Walker, Scale C.

Surveyors and Inspectors of Lands (vacant), 325l. by 25l. to 600l.

Mines, Northern Provinces.

Chief Inspector of Mines, E. A. Langalow Cock, 1,100l., duty, 220l.

Deputy Chief Inspector of Mines, W. J. Russell, 960l., duty, 96l.

Inspectors of Mines, J. W. Peddar, J. A. Stratford, F. B. Higgins, H. R. Mitchell, F. F. L. Morgan, vacant (2), Scale C.

Mines, Southern Provinces.

Inspector of Mines, J. B. S. Henderson, Scale C.

Education.

Director of Education, Northern and Southern Provinces, E. R. J. Hussey, 1,600l., duty, 320l.

Northern Provinces.

Deputy Director of Education, H. H. Annetta, 1,000l., duty, 200l.

Head of Training College, G. A. J. Bissman, 800l. by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l.

Superintendents, †Rev. G. P. Bargery, M. W. Oakes, C. R. Butler, H. W. Cole, Capt. F. W. Taylor, E. L. Mort, T. S. Phillips, S. L. Price, E. D. Craig, R. F. S. Parry, Capt. C. B. Campbell, M.C., S. J. Hogben, T. H. Baldwin, L. R. O. Norwood, J. B. Gott, C. E. J. Whitting, J. R. A. Hodge, R. M. East, P. F. G. Browning, J. P. Attenborough, H. R. Phillips, A. A. Shillingford, O. Waterfield, R. G. G. Squibbs, J. S. Clarke, C. K. Brooke-Hunt, T. R. Batton, K. B. Hill, J. L. Coulson, H. A. T. Child, A. L. Baron Hay, A. Smith, R. E. Ellison, E. E. Thomas, W. S. de G.

† Seconded to prepare Hausa dictionary.

For Scales A to F, see footnote on page 382.
Rankin, V. Slee, M. G. Wood, B. A. Babb, F. D. Hibbert, Scale C.

Superintendents, Arts and Crafts, F. A. Bemister, W. E. Nicholson, G. C. Sambidge, R. Carruthers, Capt. E. J. H. Bowler, J. G. K. Wilcox, J. G. Speer, K. A. Robertson, M.C., H. A. Whittaker, Capt. C. Titterington, P. G. S. Baylis, L. H. F. Sloan, Lieut.-Comdr. A. G. G. Webb, M. A. Shillington, W. F. Jeffries, Capt. R. Carr, M.C., D.C.M., vacant (1), Scale C.

Southern Provinces.

Deputy Director of Education (vacant), 1,200l., duty, 240l.

Assistant Directors of Education, C. B. Smith, H. W. McCowan, 1,100l. and 220l. duty pay.

Superintendents of Education, P. F. Herbert, W. B. Stimson, M.C., J. St. C. Clarke, E. A. L. Gaskin, W. N. Tolfree, F. R. H. Hawson, J. W. A. Thorburn, J. N. Panes, C. H. Baynes, W. H. S. Currier, Capt. H. T. C. Field, A. K. Beauchamp, A. H. Clift, R. F. G. Adams, T. N. Lloyd, R. A. Mol. Davidson, W. H. Thorp, G. R. Oak, C. T. Quinn-Young, K. M. Willey, J. D. Clarke, L. E. G. Langton, S. Milburn, A. F. Clarke, A. D. B. Trevor, W. W. Thomson, R. P. King, W. T. Macsell, H. Dutton, H. H. Jeffers, W. Simpson, K. W. Marchant, G. Hinckley, W. Plant, F. K. Butler, V. B. V. Powell, K. C. Murray, W. E. Holt, K. B. Forge, G. S. Wilby, L. J. Lister, A. H. Cooke, A. G. H. Webber, N. M. Ashton, A. H. Smith, E. A. Cadle, B. J. C. Hamerton, W. B. Benton-Evans, R. F. Hogarth, C. L. Rice, J. N. Cameron, A. H. Parnaby, J. E. H. White, vacant (1), Scale C.

King's College Staff—

Principals, Rev. W. M. Peacock, Rev. C. E. Squire, M.C., Rev. F. R. Fisher, 1,100l. and 220l. duty pay.

Secretary to the Board of Education, Mrs. J. C. H. Dunn, 480l., 510l. by 30l. to 720l.

Principal, Miss M. F. Tolfree, 480l., 510l. by 30l. to 720l.

European Schoolmistresses, Miss M. B. Thomson, Miss M. E. Lee, vacant (1), 480l. by 30l. to 600l.

Drill Instructor, G. E. Lanning, 500l. by 12l. to 560l.

Agricultural Instructors, G. W. Lines, G. N. Herington, Scale C.

Handicraft Instructors, J. Hoskins, § W. R. Robert, vacant (1), Scale C.

European Women Teachers, Miss N. B. Macdonald, Miss O. C. Robinson, Miss K. E. Morley, vacant (3), Scale C, with maximum 720l.

African Superintendents, L. J. Veitch, L. A. S. Dawes, J. A. Clarke, vacant (1), 325l. by 15l. to 450l., 450l. by 20l. to 720l.

Surveys.

Surveyor-General, Capt. T. J. Waters, 1,200l., duty, 240l.

Deputy Surveyor-General, Capt. J. Calder Wood, 1,100l., duty, 220l.

Assistant Surveyors-General, Capt. T. H. Galbraith, M.C., Capt. C. Gilbert-Evans, R.E., H. Murphy, (a) 1,000l., duty, 200l.

Senior Surveyors and Surveyors, W. K. Robertson, E. W. J. Edwards, A. W. N. de Norman, E. du R. Botha, R. B. W. Forsyth, H. E. Bradley, F. E. Taverner, R. Buckingham, R. C. Burgess, R.

Lindsay, W. A. Kuenen, A. E. Thomas, J. F. Morris, H. Isherwood, J. A. Bentley, A. E. Lee, J. H. Churchill, J. P. Cunningham, G. J. Humphries, T. G. Blanchflower, N. E. Mooney, W. B. Hewett, W. D. C. Wiggins, H. Fyson, F. J. Quinton, F. W. Sutton, T. Russell, C. W. Malayan, W. B. McNab, A. S. Paterson, E. A. Rothery, B. L. C. Anderson, M. D. Wimbush, K. H. Hunter, C. S. Baron, Major C. N. Brewin, M.C., J. H. Keast, W. Harrison, G. V. Ashton, vacant (4), Scale C.

Senior Surveyor and Surveyors, Africans, J. C. Johnston, C. T. Olumide, A. C. B. Cole, vacant (3), 325l. by 25l. to 600l.

Draftsman, I. O. Gilbert, 325l. by 25l. to 600l.

Accountant, Capt. D. Henderson, M.C., Scale A with maximum of 720l.

Lithographer, J. H. Pook, Scale F.

Drawsman, C. A. Livingstone, vacant (1), 500l. by 12l. to 560l.

Office Assistant and Storekeeper, C. R. Craney, Scale A with maximum 600l.

Special R.E. Party.

Capt. B. T. Godfrey-Faussett, M.C., R.E., Capt. C. S. V. Cooke, M.C., R.E., 960l. and 96l. duty pay.

Subalterns, Lieut. A. V. Bird, R.A., Lieut. H. E. Pike, R.E., Lieut. F. G. Clark, R.A., Lieut. H. C. R. Stileman, R.E., Lieut. H. T. Heard, R.E., 720l. and 72l. duty pay.

Rank and File, Sergt. J. Pratley, Sergt. A. R. Martin, Loc-Sgt. J. Kelly, Loc-Sgt. P. H. O'Brien, Loc-Sgt. G. F. Mullinger, Corp. F. Devonshire, Corp. W. W. Birch, Corp. A. G. Adams, Corp. A. E. Prestidge, Corp. A. H. C. Mansbridge, Corp. M. Heathwaite, Corp. R. A. Joliffe, Lce-Corp. R. G. Stuart, Scale F.

Geological Survey.

Director, Capt. R. C. Wilson, 1,200l. and 240l. duty pay.

Geologists, A. D. N. Bain, W. Russ, C. M. Tattam, vacant (1), 540l. by 30l. to 720l., by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. at 720l.

Public Works.

Administrative and Engineering.

Director of Public Works, C. L. Cox, M.I.C.E., 1,700l. and 340l. duty pay.

Deputy Director, F. D. Evans, M.I.C.E., 1,300l. and 260l. duty pay.

Assistant Directors, S. C. Hanson, A.M.I.S.E., L.R.I.B.A., E. G. Parker, A.M.I.C.E., A.C.G.I., E. A. G. Scott-Hall, M.I.M. & C.E., F. S. Robinson, A.M.I.C.E., A. J. Goodwin, 1,100l. and 220l. duty pay.

Superintendent of Native Administration Works, H. E. Walker, A.M.I.C.E., 1,000l. and 200l. duty pay.

Senior Executive Engineers, C. J. H. Adderley, B.Engr., B.A., A.M.I.C.E.I., J. B. Fallowfield, H. M. Peppercorn, J. Johnson, M.I.M. & C.E., E. R. Kendrick, A.M.I.C.E., A.R.S.I., R. A. Brown, H. G. Peake, B.Sc., A.M.I.C.E., C. G. Cotton, A.M.I.C.E., A.M.I.M.E., F.R.G.S., A. C. Trulove, B.Engr., A.M.I.C.E., 960l. and 96l. duty pay.

Engineers and Assistant Engineers, L. W. Peach, A.M.I.C.E., A.M.I.M. & C.E., G. Paulin, B.Sc., B.E., A.M.I.C.E., J. McGregor, A.R.T.C., H. J. Brook, R.E., A.M.I.M.E., J. Middleton, E. W. Camm, A.M.I.C.E., R. Jones, M.I.S.E.,

§ Seconded from P.W. Dept.

For Scales A to F, see footnote on page 382.

(a) Supernumerary and permanently seconded to Kano Native Administration.
C. H. Barham, B. P. Chadwick, A.R.S.I., J. H. Wood, J. T. Cradock, F. L. V. Mills, M.C., A.M.I.C.E., C. Greenup, H. S. Aldred, A.M.I.C.E., E. M. Muncaster, M.C., B.Sc., L. A. Gordon, M.C., B.Sc., A. L. Vaugon, B.Sc., H. Wharton, A.M.I.C.E., C. E. Thorpe, B.Sc., A.M.I.C.E., R. E. Keely, B.A., B.A.I., S. J. Slaughter, R. F. B. Crook, B.Sc., R. E. G. Ferguson, A. R. Simee, A. McDonald, B.Sc., J. M. Sleigh, B.Sc., C. E. Andree, B.Sc., A.M.I.C.E., W. J. Morgan, B.A., B.A.I., A. L. Simpkins, A.M.I.E., G. R. Hasselhuhn, B.Sc., A. S. Ellicott, B.Sc., K. P. Humbridge, B.Sc., J. L. Malloy, B.Sc., D. B. O'Shea, B.A., D. M. MacLaughlin, B.A., B.A.I., J. S. Long, B.A., B.A.I., J. A. Henry, B.Sc., J. M. MacAlpine, W. S. Hamilton, C. B. Brown, B.A., B.A.I., H. Samuel, B.E., J. C. O'Hara, B.E., B.Sc., E. Hill, B.Sc. (Eng.), T. E. Brand, B.Sc. (Eng.), A. Dunbar, B.Sc. (Eng.), L. M. Vaughan-Arbuckle, W. Gibben, B.E., D. G. Blyth, A.M.I.C.E., L. G. Culshaw, A.C.G.I., C. B. H. Henderson, B.Sc., J. C. Davison, B.A., B.A.I., T.C.D., J. K. Thorpe, M.A., G.I.M.E., T. F. Leahy, B.E., G. J. Kinganorth, A.M.I.C.E., W. Dempster, E. T. Dean, B.Sc. (Eng.), J. H. Gillespie, B.E., T. T. Gilbert, B.A.I., T.C.D., D. H. Lawson, B.A. (Eng.), J. J. Napier, B.Sc., A. E. Holt, B.Sc. (Eng.), J. C. B. Thomson, B.Sc., J. J. Holland, B.Sc., B.E., A.M.I.C.E., J. Mahony, B.E., P. I. O'Connor, B.Sc., B.E., R. A. Tennant, B.E., J. B. R. Pedder, M.Eng., G. C. Stubbe, G. D. Crear, J. K. Mouoney, F. I. Schofield, R. Baird, T. W. Shaw, H. O'Neill, C. B. Watson, A. L. L. Baker, J. Lea, W. A. Anderson, F. H. Woodrow, C. R. Hawkins, C. J. Baker, A. G. Boorman, J. C. Chawner, G. M. Johnson, vacant (2), Scale C.

Engineering Assistant, A. H. Knox, 720l. by 40l. to 920l.*

Works Manager, T. L. Smith, 720l. by 40l. to 920l.

Senior Architect, H. A. Porter, A.R.I.B.A., 960l. and 96l. duty pay.

Architects and Assistant Architects, F. I. Tillery, A.R.I.B.A., A.L.S.E., C. C. A. Hobbs, F.F.A.S., T. Scott, A.S.A., F.F.A.S., A.T. Flutter, A.R.I.B.A., P. N. Logan, O.B.E., A.R.I.B.A., vacant (2), Scale C.

Quantity Surveyor, C. H. Gregory, Scale C with maximum of 800l.

Chief Inspectors, S. Rhodes, W. W. Jones, C. A. Brown, E. G. Garrity, A. Hands, E. E. W. K. Gambrill, A. H. Cherry, vacant (1), 800l.

Inspectors, Grade I, H. M. Forrest, T. C. Laing, R. Lloyd, W. F. Parlow, J. W. Luckins, C. Ingleton, W. A. Lambshire, V. J. Turton, H. J. Spriggs, F. G. Morley, E. W. Chubb, J. L. Roberts, A. Mokler, G. W. Dill, J. J. Rathbone, H. E. Needes, J. J. Miller, W. G. Critchell, E. Brookman, W. J. Maize, A. G. Bagley, vacant (1), 500l. by 12l. to 560l.

Inspectors, Grade II, W. W. Mitchell, A. M. Simpson, G. W. Tucker, D.S.M., A. Ashford, H. W. Daley, A. Lofthouse, C. Ambrose, J. Fraser, F. J. Fern, W. S. Pierce, F. R. Phillips, W. J. Lucas, F. J. Hoskins, E. Smith, W. Hogg, H. C. Ashe, W. Wilkie, C. H. W. Surr, J. D. Gray, S. H. Davis, A. F. Farnfield, G. H. Tucker, S. G. Smith, A. Lovett, G. A. Izod, W. D. Ball, I. W. Jones, C. H. Leech, R. S. Sheppard, T. F. Ogg, D. A. Smith, F. Shawcross, S. J. Dudley, W. F. Phillips, G. W. Gerrard, J. Melville, R. J. Tyler, F. J. Yabley, R. E. Yabley, F. M. Collier, A. C. Allen, J. K. Dawson, H. J. Scott, G. W. Tuck, W. H. Gill, J. I. Rook, A. Pearce, J. Bremner, R. C. S. Fowler, W. C. Mowatt, J. M. Lauder, H. R. Kay, vacant (8), Scale F.

Waterworks.

Assistant Director, Major R. L. Nunn, D.S.O., 1,100l. and 220l. duty pay.

Senior Water Engineer, vacant, 960l. and 96l. duty pay.

Water Engineers, J. R. Roberts, A.M.I.C.E., G. H. Ivory, A.M.I.C.E., L. W. Innes, H. L. Molyneux, 800l. by 40l. to 920l.*

Pumpers, W. Elderton, R. V. Cleave, H. Handforth, T. O. Lambourn, R. C. Taylor, C. Hill, 500l. by 12l. to 560l.

Kano Township Electricity Scheme.

Resident Engineer, J. M. Hurley, 750l.

Accounts and Stores.

Chief Accountant, H. L. Crudgington, 960l. and 96l. duty pay.

Assistant Chief Accountant, B. Hughes, O.B.E., 800l. by 40l. to 920l.

Accountants, G. J. Pringle, G. D. Hallett, W. J. Worthy, F. J. Bonner, 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 800l.

Assistant Accountants, H. H. Williams, A. I. Graham, H. S. Light, D. S. Johnson, W. C. Carter, J. M. Pryde, H. A. Taylor, R. Taylor, A. E. Moore, E. J. Hill, T. Stothart, A. S. Allen, J. E. Crawley, T. F. Riley, Scale A with maximum of 720l.

Chief Storekeeper, R. C. Sykes, 720l. and 72l. duty pay.

Storekeeper, Iddo Sawmill, C. W. Dunnill, Scale A with maximum of 720l.

Assistant Storekeepers, G. D. Stockwell, J. T. Tuck, C. G. Sandford-Elvey, F. Selby, K. H. Vernon, J. E. Gosling, R. Righton, F. W. Bailey, Scale A with maximum of 600l.

Mechanical.

Mechanical Engineer, S. Lightband, 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 800l. and 72l. duty pay.

Assistant Mechanical Engineers, C. F. Gearon, A.M.I.C.E., M.I.M.E., J. W. Tallentire, F. C. Kup, T. A. Hamer, Scale C with maximum of 720l.

Electrical.

Electrical Engineer-in-Chief, C. H. Pickworth, 1,100l. and 220l. duty pay.

Assistant Chief Electrical Engineer, A. V. Layton, 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 800l.

Electrical Engineers, C. Haywood, F. H. Judd, A.M.I.S.E., J. L. F. Middleton, J. O. Hall, P. W. Harry, E. C. Lee, S. Evans, C. E. Harris, H. Jennings, vacant (2), Scale C with maximum of 720l.

Mechanical Engineers (Electrical Branch), O. C. Leak, A. R. Rae, Scale C.

Maintenance Engineer, Ijora, F. W. Fox, Scale C with maximum of 720l.

Station Engineers, W. Miller, W. T. S. Thurston, N. Wise, A.M.I.M.E., H. Blythe, F. J. Leach, J. Kirton, F. P. Lloyd-Rees, J. H. L. Williams, W. H. E. Towell, P. N. Turner, R. W. G. Greener, R. S. Nelson, vacant (1), 500l. by 12l. to 560l.

For Scales A to F, see footnote on page 382.

* Plus 72l. Seniority Pay.
Motor Superintendents, A. J. Morris, vacant (1), Scale C with maximum of 720l.
Cable Joiner, C. E. Fawcett, G. T. Turner, Scale F.
Wiremen, J. C. Chopping, vacant (1), Scale F.

European Supervision, Extraordinary.
Assistant Waterworks Engineers, H. A. Milne, H. Adam, D. S. Bulbin, G. Henderson, Scale C.
Waterworks Superintendent, G. W. S. Hudson, 600l. by 30l. to 720l.
Waterworks Foremen, F. Parish, J. Alexander, W. L. Hutchison, J. Slomen, 500l. by 12l. to 580l.
Mechanic Iju Waterworks, A. Marshall, 660l.
Roads Engineers, R. Rodger, C. D. A. McIver, T. J. G. Sproule, A. R. Wileman, E. F. Nash, P. R. T. Munroe, R. Clibborn, vacant (2), 300l. by 40l. to 920l.|| Royal Engineers, seconded to P.W.D. as Roads Engineer, Lieut. T. J. F. Price, R.E., 800l. by 40l. to 920l.|
Assistant Engineers (Roads), G. Osmond, C. B. Glencsk, W. A. Borland, D. W. J. M. Gordon, H. C. Ketley, B.Sc., R. B. Holloway, M.A.A.S.T.A., E. T. Sirotkin, B.E., N. Lush, B.E., G. P. Buckley, A.M.I.M.E., C. W. M. Williams, A.M.I.C.E., B.Sc., G. W. Hutchinson, B.Sc., W. J. Andrews, vacant (3), Scale C.
Non-Commissioned Officers, R.E., seconded to P.W.D. as Foremen (Road Construction), Corporal H. T. Smith, Sergt. W. Sharp, Corporal S. H. Leggatt, 440l. by 12l. to 500l.
Foremen (Road Construction), C. Cochs, H. Trowbridge, S. A. Ralph, R. T. Sarson, F. H. Ackrill, J. R. Hedger, H. W. Chaplin, A. J. Friend, H. Sylvester, D. G. Hayes, J. P. Brook, R. Pickering, A. C. Wood, D. Grewar, R. E. Puplett, vacant (5), Scale F.
Resident Engineers, vacant (2), Scale C with maximum of 800l.
Foremen, R. Wadsworth, P. C. Sadler, J. Brunton, R. West, J. A. Anderson, L. Redwood, H. Clayton, T. E. Walsh, E. C. Forrest, E. West, E. A. Anhe, H. Sellers, W. W. Hoy, D. J. Anderson, J. A. Bootes, P. C. Wright, J. Casley, S. G. H. Roger, H. Taplin, W. H. Mathews, A. A. E. Ashley, R. F. Sewell, H. C. W. Lye, A. W. Yell, G. G. Trimmer, E. Sykes, J. Fulton, A. H. Bath, E. A. Halse, L. H. Young, A. A. Tyler, J. Edwards, W. T. Pearse, T. B. Wade, W. Brown, P. M. Haste, L. R. Turner, J. W. Davies, B. Pengelly, O. T. Jones, J. W. F. Crewdson, W. Kelman, R. Hill, S. S. Rowland, W. J. Edwards, P. Laycock, C. B. Jones, D. P. Hutton, R. Davies, D. R. Manuel, T. W. Marshall, R. Geary, H. F. Gittoes, G. Holmes, E. H. Caunter, W. C. Allen, Scale F.
Plumbers, J. W. W. Hallam, G. W. Bingham, Scale F.

Posts and Telegraphs.
Postmaster-General, G. B. Hebden, 1,300l. and 260l. duty pay.
Deputy Postmaster-General, L. Bettesworth, 1,060l. and 210l. duty pay.
Divisional Surveyors, E. Edginton, L. A. Harcourt, 960l. and 96l. duty pay.
Surveyors and Assistant Surveyors, E. S. Moore, A. McCormick, C. S. Innes, M.B.E., W. Adams, H. G. Jessop, C. B. Plenderleith, D.C.M., Capt. E. Tull, J. M. Cunningham, T. B. Bales, W. J. Collison, C. R. Rowlands, L. Roberts, H. J. Edwards, C. E. Ross, P. A. Courtney, G. H. Stocks, F. Hampshire, R. F. Gainsford, R. H. Gallagher, S. G. Davies, vacant (2), Scale A.
Telegraph Instructor, E. Seppings, Scale A with maximum of 720l.
Postmaster-Surveyors, H. A. Paris, J. A. Reffell, I. A. Williams, vacant (2), 300l. by 15l. to 330l., to 360l. by 25l. to 375l.
Chief Accountant, G. F. Sharp, 960l. and 96l. duty pay.
Senior Accountant (vacant), 600l. by 30l. to 720l., by 40l. to 800l.*
Assistant Accountants, F. H. Buckeridge, *A. G. R. Nylander, W. J. Collison, L. Roberts, P. A. Courtney, 4 at Scale A with maximum of 720l., and 1 at 300l., 315l., 330l., 350l. by 25l. to 575l.
Storekeeper, J. A. Bruton, Scale A with maximum of 720l.
Assistant Storekeeper, Capt. W. de la C. Topley, Scale A with maximum of 600l.
Engineer-in-Chief (vacant), 1,100l. and 220l. duty pay.
Assistant Engineers-in-Chief, J. E. Cumming, vacant (1), 960l. and 96l. duty pay.
Divisional Engineers, Senior Engineer and Assistant Engineers, F. Atkins, F. J. Head, Capt. G. F. Davies, M.B.E., W. J. Smith, G. L. Carter, R. Lessells, J. A. Gundry, H. A. Smith, S. P. Greer, T. R. Beckett, D. S. Foulkes-Roberts, D. Sanderson, T. G. King, H. H. Loney, R. Groves, A. K. Todd, A. A. Butler, R. W. M. Revell, J. W. Jehu, I. Quigley, vacant (3), Scale C.
Works Superintendent, F. M. Tupper, 720l. by 40l. to 920l.|
Technical Instructor (vacant), Scale C.
Chief Inspectors, H. V. Seume, W. Hyde, 600l.
Inspectors, Grade I, J. K. Adams, T. D. Leech, S. G. Reed, H. W. Williamson, A. E. Laver, F. H. Everitt, vacant (1), 500l. by 12l. to 580l.
Inspectors, Grade II, G. P. Williams, P. L. Barkway, R. Worthington, G. E. Fairey, J. Maloney, D.S.M., J. L. Hanks, A. E. Cheal, T. J. Evans, O.B.E., M.C., E. B. Cleary, W. H. Champion, T. F. Ledbetter, E. F. Perry, P. W. Christie, G. H. Neal, C. H. L. Parker, W. Hawkes, R. Cleary, R. D. Sutter, A. Eastwood, L. V. Fields, A. Trickett, C. Entwisle, A. Coull, W. F. Irvine, E. J. J. Hill, J. M. MacPherson, R. A. Cook, G. McNab, G. Whyte, F. T. J. Burley, Scale F.

Colliery.
Colliery Manager, W. J. Leck, 1,150l., duty, 230l.
Deputy Colliery Manager, G. G. Askew, 960l., duty, 96l.
Assistant to Colliery Manager, T. Maltby, 600l. by 30l. to 720l.
Surveyor, D. G. C. Murphy, Scale C with maximum of 720l.
Accountant (vacant), 600l. by 30l. to 720l., by 40l. to 800l., seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.
Under Managers, N. Ball, R. Bell, C. E. Mathews, 540l. by 12l. to 600l.

For Scales A to F, see footnote on page 382.
† Plus 72l. Seniority Pay. * Plus 72l. Seniority Pay from 720l.
‡ 300l., 315l., 330l., 350l. by 25l. to 575l.
NIGERIA.

Colliery Engineer, G. W. Bertram, 600l., to 800l., duty 72l.
Assistant Colliery Engineer, R. A. Bartram, 600l.
Mechanics, B. Thomas, M. Clamp, T. Llewellyn, W. B. Saint, Scale F.
Sixteen Overmen, Scale F.
Surface Foreman, A. T. Loose, Scale F.
Electrician, A. Lee, Scale F.

Railway.—General.
General Manager, E. M. Bland, C.M.G., M.Inst.T., 2,000l., duty 400l.
Deputy General Manager, W. C. Bostock, M.Inst.T., 1,600l., duty 320l.
Assistant to the General Manager, Lt.-Col. E. Harper, 960l., duty 96l.
Office Assistants, M. V. P. O'Byrne, A. Busby, A. J. Marinho*, J. R. Best, Scale A with maximum of 800l.
Chief Accountant, vacant, 1,200l., duty, 240l.
Assistant Chief Accountant, A. Gibbons, 960l., duty 96l.
Senior Accountants, W. W. Hedley, H. H. Norman, A. L. Anglese, vacant (2), 800l. by 40l. to 920l., seniority allowance 72l.
Accountants, H. R. A. Chelu, R. V. Whitehead, H. D. Wyllie, W. Nield, S. Chivers, W. C. Marshall, H. B. Schofield, H. J. Williams, R. L. Leith, F. G. R. Port, 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 800l., seniority allowance, 72l. from 720l.
Assistant Accountants, F. W. Gray, D. L. Riddle, H. R. G. T. Chapman, M.C., S. T. Crampton, †H. J. R. Farrow, M.C., A. L. Peters, R. L. Gardiner, W. Morrison, Scale A with maximum of 720l.; E. C. N. Scott, M. O. Ebinisi, B. O. Taylor, F. R. Shields, N. F. Williams, J. C. Swallow, R. Lloyd-Jones, A.C.I.S., J. C. Morris, F. Sander, vacant (1), 300l., 350l. by 25l. to 575l.
Stock Verifiers, H. Stuart, A. T. Ayling, J. Ivory, D.C.M., vacant (1), Scale A with maximum of 720l.
Superintendent Railway Press, H. V. Gray, 540l. by 15l. to 600l.
Assistant Superintendent Railway Press, H. Hardwick, 420l. by 15l. to 600l.
Chief Storekeeper, A. B. Campbell, 1,000l., duty 200l.
Assistant Chief Storekeeper (vacant), 720l. by 40l. to 800l., seniority allowance 72l.
Storekeepers, W. H. Avery, A. H. Davey; and Assistant Storekeepers, T. Price, F. H. Down, B. L. R. Reeve, A. J. Barford, S. C. Griffiths, H. Payne, *W. A. Akiyemi, G. C. Hill, W. J. Stewart, Scale A with maximum of 720l.

Ways and Works.
Chief Engineer, W. W. Bishop, 1,300l., duty 260l.
Assistant Chief Engineer, H. W. Lawson, M.I.C.E., M.C.I., 1,200l., duty 240l.
Engineer-in-Charge, Surveys, J. J. Humphreys, 1,050l., and 210l. duty pay.
Divisional Engineers, J. H. Forbes, †G. A. Buchanan, D. L. Morison, M.I.C.E., S. W. F. Kreiser, J. Ogilvie, 960l., duty 96l.
Engineers, [S. W. F. Kreiser, Lt.-Col. J. H. Boyd, O.B.E., W. R. Milliken, H. Weightman, V. St. L. Carter, F. Pike, G. F. Gloster, E. Shireffs, R. C. Wells, H. G. R. Peet, P. Pell-Ilderton, W. W. De Mattos, G. S. S. Clyns, H. Llewelyn, G. Brown, R. A. Haworth, M. L. Cobb, G. C. Totton, M.C., A.C.G.I., A.M.I.C.E., M.Amer., R.E.A., C. N. Brooks, N. M. Lewis, R. J. M. Leakey, B. H. Hughes, C.E., A.M.E.I.C., W. C. Bamford, C. E. Chadwick, Scale C.
Chief Draughtsman, J. L. Mulvaney, M.I.Struct.E., Scale C, with maximum of 800l.
Chief Foremen of Works, W. F. Stevenson, J. Simpson, T. E. Cook, W. T. P. Dyer, 600l.
Foremen of Works, 1st Grade, J. F. Cadigan, W. Clark, T. H. M. Yates, A. D. Cross, T. P. Worrall, vacant (1), 500l. by 12l. to 560l.
Chief Signal Foreman, J. F. Trezise, 600l.
Foremen of Works, 2nd Grade, L. M. Pierpoint, S. Roberts, J. F. Aitken, J. A. Dickinson, A. Luker, A. C. Swain, E. Jones, F. W. Ramsell, J. F. Carey, Scale F.
Temporary Foreman of Works, E. Jones, 600l. by 12l. to 560l.
Signal Foremen, J. Goold, H. J. Ross, T. S. Maugham, A.M.Inst.R.S.E., Scale F.
Senior Foremen Platelayers, J. Crank, H. J. Bishop, T. Fox, B. Lee, H. J. Yeates, A. Kingswell, A. G. Jefferys, J. T. H. Yates, 480l. by 12l. to 520l.
Foremen Platelayers, Scale D.

Locomotive.
Chief Mechanical Engineer, Major M. P. Sella, O.B.E., A.M.I.C.E., M.I.Loco.E., 1,200l., duty 240l.
Assistant Chief Mechanical Engineer, W. White, 1,050l., duty 210l.
Works Manager, W. G. W. Wilson, M.I.Loco.E., 960l., duty 96l.
Works Manager, J. D. Weir, 920l., duty 72l.
Assistant Works Managers, E. B. Laundy, R. W. Browne, J. W. Duggan, Scale C.
Boiler Inspector, J. W. Booth, 600l.
Senior Workshop Foreman, H. A. Harding, 600l.
Chief Draughtsman, H. E. Allwood, Scale C, with maximum of 800l.
Draughtsmen and Instructors, M. A. Crane, B. Quine, Scale C, with maximum of 720l.
Office Superintendent, vacant, 400l. to 600l.
Workshop Foremen, H. Walker, J. Fitzpatrick, F. G. W. Potter, A. J. Tillman, F. E. H. Godfrey, A. W. Fowler, L. Tiffen, C. MacArthur, W. G. McNally, S. G. Northmore, A. W. Fentum, E. P. Pascoe, 500l. by 12l. to 560l.
Inspecting Driver, 500l. by 12l. to 560l., vacant.
Senior Workshop Artisans, G. R. Samson, P. I. Amesbury, J. Bennie, W. T. Bomberry, P. E. McLeod, H. W. Wilkins, P. Dean, W. E. Chappell, L. C. Robins, vacant (1), Scale F.
Fifty-two Workshop Artisans, Scale E.

Electrical Staff.
Electrical Engineer, H. Trattles, 720l. by 40l. to 920l., duty 80l.
Assistant Electrical Engineer, vacant.
Shift Engineers, D. W. Thompson, H. Sherriff, H. G. Thomas, G. Charlton, H. R. Hindley.
Electrical Repair Artisan, vacant, Scale E.

Iddo and Apapa Transporters.
Electrician, J. P. Gibb, Scale E.

Train Lighting.
Electrical Artisans, H. W. Hirona, W. A. McCalla, Scale E.

Transportation.
Superintendent of the Line, D. H. Elias, M.C., 1,400l., duty 280l.
Divisional Superintendents, F. A. Pope, C. E. Brassey, D. Gaskin, H. D. Gibson, H. K. Bostock, 1,200l., duty 240l.

* African. † Seconded to Railway Construction. ‡ Temporarily promoted Senior District Engineer. § Temporarily promoted Divisional Engineer.
Assistant Superintendent of the Line, Traffic, J. A. Oldfield, M.Inst.T., 1,060l., duty 210l.

Assistant Superintendent of the Line, Locomotive, A. H. Discombe, 1,060l., duty 210l.

Assistant Divisional Superintendents, Traffic, H. Creighton, L. E. Steventon, P. J. McKenna, S. W. Shinn, 960l., duty 90l.

Assistant Divisional Superintendents, Locomotive, H. A. Freelend, L. Nell, P. M. Egan, T. B. Walch, 960l., duty 96l.

Office Superintendent, L. Symons, D.C.M., M.M., W. D. Shreeve, J. J. Laing, A.M.I.T., A. H. Wood.

Assistant Traffic Superintendents, F. A. Sherriff, W. G. Dawson, P. J. McKenna, S. W. Shinn, M. C. Wright, E. A. Ashton, R. A. Morris, G. F. Waring, G. Alderson, P. L. Dawson, F. W. Doggett, M.C., W. J. Y. Stevens, C. D. Richards, J. J. Walker, A. J. F. Bunning, Scale A.

Assistant Locomotive Superintendents, F. O. Lyon, E. Milne, C. F. Fennah, G. O. Urion, H. A. Johnson, C. M. Temple, G. Gibson, E. Waters, G. Leckie, Scale A.

Traffic Inspectors, 1st Grade, H. W. Croden, C. F. Parr, S. H. Perkins, F. Rolfe, J. Patton, C. Mitten, H. J. Palmer, L. L. Berry, E. H. Warham, T. W. Sharp, vacant (1), 500l. by 12l. to 560l.

Superintendent Traffic Training School, A. E. Westlake, Scale A, with maximum of 720l.

Traffic Inspectors, 2nd Grade, W. H. Best, J. R. Oldfield, C. C. Whittington, C. W. Putsey, T. A. Crawford, G. S. Oliver, P. W. Blackwell, R. W. Veale, H. J. Smith, E. N. Birnie, vacant (1), Scale F.

Locomotive Inspectors, J. J. Curtis, A. E. Crawley, G. H. Lunn, E. Lamb, C. Burgesse, G. Davies, vacant (1), 500l. by 12l. to 560l.

Warehouse Supervisors, E. W. Dady, W. H. J. F. Derham, R. Carverhill, J. Lewis, F. S. Horman, Scale E.

Senior Locomotive Foremen, C. R. Evans, D. L. Waddell, 600l.

Seventeen European Guards, Scale D.

Ten Locomotive Foremen, Grade I, 500l. by 12l. to 560l.

Thirteen Locomotive Foremen, Grade II, Scale F.

Nine Shed Fillers, Scale E.

Seven Boilermakers.

One hundred and four Locomotive Drivers, Scale E.

Carriage and Wagon Inspectors, W. McEwen, F. J. Perkins, W. Dakin, 500l. by 12l. to 560l. and Scale E.

Carriage and Wagon Examiners, W. Harris, C. E. Lane, J. Clarke, E. W. J. Farley, W. G. Hunt, Scale E.

Motor Engineer, C. H. Webster, 720l., duty 72l.

Assistant Motor Engineer, F. J. MacLaren, 500l. by 12l. to 600l.

Motor Mechanics, W. Mullen, F. C. Stythe, E. B. Wade, Scale F.

NIGERIA REGIMENT.

ROYAL WEST AFRICAN FRONTIER FORCE.

HEADQUARTERS STAFF (Kaduna).

Commandant, Colonel C. C. Norman, 1,400l. and 10s. per diem duty pay.

Assistant Commandant, Lt.-Col. G. T. Burney, M.C., 1,200l.

Staff Officer, Major R. F. B. Naylor, D.S.O., M.C., 1,000l.

Staff Captain, Capt. E. F. Bolton, 850l.

Intelligence Officer, Capt. A. G. E. Alexander, M.C., 750l.

Staff Quarter-Master, Capt. J. D. Cameron, 720l. by 30l. to 840l.

Officer-in-Charge of Records, Capt. J. G. Collins, M.C., 600l. by 20l. to 700l.

Lieutenant-Colonels, V. N. Johnson, D.S.O., P. L. M. Battye, M.C., D. J. Grant, M.C., N. D. Rice, 1,000l. and 10s. per diem duty pay.

Majors (Infantry), A. E. Lawrence, M.C., L. L. Hassell, D.S.O., M.C., D. C. Twiss, M.C., W. F. P. Thomas, M.C., N. L. O. De Rinzy, M.C., 850l.

Adjutants, Capt. F. W. C. Woods, Capt. L. G. H. Bryant, Capt. A. R. W. S. Koe, M.B.E., Capt. J. Y. Whitfield, 700l. and 5s. per diem duty pay.

Quartermasters, Capt. J. Waterson, Capt. D. Taylor, Capt. E. B. Millwood, Capt. R. Element, D.C.M., 600l. to 700l. by 20l.

Transport Officer, A. S. Parnther, 600l. to 700l.

Twenty-Seven Captains, 750l. or 700l.

Seventy-Nine Subalterns, 600l. or 510l.

Beneath Bridge Construction.

Resident Engineer, J. H. Williams, 1,500l. by 100l. to 1,800l., duty pay 300l.

Deputy Resident Engineer, H. Prescott, 1,100l. by 50l. to 1,260l. and 220l. duty pay.

Senior Assistant Engineer, B. Williamson, 840l. by 40l. to 920l.

Assistant Engineer, E. J. Boyle, 480l., 510l. by 30l. to 720l.

Accountant Clerk, F. W. Sadler, 450l. by 30l. to 600l.

Inspectors, N. McColl, E. H. Godden, T. Dowds, J. Cochrane, B. B. Ford, J. R. Parry, 500l. by 12l. to 560l.

