ASCENSION.

The island of Ascension, 34 miles in area, lying in the South Atlantic, lat. 7° 53' S. and long. 14° 18' W., is under the supervision of the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty, who maintain a small naval station there. It was taken possession of in 1815, and is now garrisoned by 100 marines. It is famous for its turtles, large numbers of which are caught between Dec. and May. The mail steamers from the Cape call there once a month. It is a barren, rocky peak of purely volcanic origin, and destitute of vegetation, except at the highest point, 2,870 feet high, but has been cultivated to an extent permitting the maintenance of 3,000 sheep. The transfer of the naval station to St. Helena is under consideration. The population is about 166. The imports from and exports to the United Kingdom in 1887 were £2,318L and 78L respectively. All expenses are charged to naval funds.

Captain, R. Evans, R.N.

TRISTAN D'ACUNHA.

Tristan d'Acunha and Gough Island are the principal of a group of islands lying in lat. 37° 6' S. and long. 12° 2' W. It was taken possession of by a military force during the residence of Napoleon at St. Helena. Upon his death the garrison was withdrawn, with the exception of three men, who, with certain shipwrecked sailors, became the founders of the present settlement. For a long time only one of the settlers had a wife, but subsequently the others contracted with a sea captain to bring them wives from St. Helena. The population, when the island was visited in February, 1890, by one of H.M. ships, was found to be only 84. It remains practically stationary, as the younger and more ambitious settlers migrate in batches to the Cape. The inhabitants practically enjoy their possessions in common, and there is no strong drink on the island, and no crime. It was at one time proposed to give them laws and a regular government, but this was found unnecessary for the above reasons, and they remain under the moral rule of their oldest inhabitant, Governor Green, successor to Governor Glass, Corporal in the Royal Artillery, and founder of the settlement. The inhabitants are spoken of as long-lived, healthy, moral, religious, and hospitable to strangers. A supply of stores and provisions was provided out of a grant voted by Parliament, and sent out by a man-of-war in 1886, nearly all the able-bodied men having been drowned while attempting to board a vessel in December, 1885. There are 300 cattle and 200 sheep on the islands, and crops of potatoes are raised.

MISCELLANEOUS ISLANDS.

A number of islands and rocks throughout the world are British territory, or under British protection, but are not included in any Colony or separate Protectorate. Many of these have permanent inhabitants, but are, or have been, leased by the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury for guano collection, or for cocoanut planting. The rents are paid into the Exchequer. Among such may be mentioned the Ashmore Group (Indian Ocean), Bird Island and Cocos Island (in the Norfolk Island Group), Sombrero (West Indies, with a Board of Trade Light costing £20L annually), Raine Island, Bell Island and Bramble Cay (near British New Guinea), Sydney Island, Phoenix Group, leased to Mr. Arundel (4° 25' S. lat., 171° 13' W. long.), Caroline and Flint Islands (Pacific Ocean, leased to Mr. Arundel, 9° 56' S. lat., 150° 6' W. long., and 11° 26' S. lat. and 151° 48' W. long.), Macquarie Island (4° 1' S. lat., 155° 57' W. long.), leased to Messrs. Grice, Sumner, and Co., Pilgrim Island, Durie Island, Bauman, Roggewein, and Lassenhoven Islands, Coral Island and Dudosa, Star Island, Little Scrub Island, Palmerston Island, Vostoc, Willis's Islets (all in the Pacific Ocean), and there are many others.

Humphrey (Manahiki), and Ricorson (Rakahanga) Islands, lying to the north of the Cook Islands, about 160° W. long. and 10° S. lat., were annexed in 1889. Christmas, Fanning, and Penrhyn Islands were annexed in March, 1889, in view of the possibility of their being utilised in connection with the projected telegraph cable from Vancouver to Australasia. Christmas Island (1° 57' N. lat., 157° 27' W. long.) is an atoll 10 miles in circumference, barren, with only brackish water. A trading firm collects mother of pearl shells. Fanning Island (3° 51' N. lat., 189° W. long.) is a small atoll 9 miles by 4, covered with cocoanut trees, copra and guano being exported. Penrhyn Island (9° S. lat., 158° 3 W. long.) is an atoll 30 miles in circumference, partly covered with cocoanut trees, and having a population of 300. Mother of pearl is exported. Swallow Island (13° 13' S. lat., 163° 9' W. long.) was annexed for a similar reason, 22nd April, 1889. A protectorate was established over Jarvis Island, the Phoenix group, comprising Phoenix, East Hull, Gardner, and Sydney Islands, Washington or New York Island, and Palmyra Island, and Johnson Island.*

The Great and Little Basses and Minicoy, small islets in the Indian Ocean, with lightships maintained by the Board of Trade out of ship dues levied on vessels passing, and collected at Ceylon, Mauritius, Straits, and Indian ports.

The Kuriyan-Muriyan Islands, five in number off the south-east coast of Arabia, were ceded to the Imam of Muskat for the purpose of laying the Red Sea telegraph cable. On one of the Hallaniyah, is the signalling station maintained by the Telegraph Company. The whole group is leased for the purpose of guano collection.

Amboyna Cay and Sprattley Island (lat. 8° N., 111° 54' E. long.; lat. 7° 52' N., 112° 35' long.), two uninhabited sandbanks in the mid of the China Sea, lying about 240 miles N.W. of Borneo and 100 miles N. of Labuan, were annexed in 1877, and leased for guano collection. They are annually visited by Chinese junks for the purpose of collecting turtle.

A fresh lease was granted in 1889 to the Compania Borneo Company, Limited, Winchester House, Old Broad-street, E.C.

* Since withdrawn, and acknowledged to belong to Hawaii, on condition that the right to land a coconuts be conceded if desired.
