BECHUANALAND PROTECTORATE.

Situation and Area.

The territory of the Bechuanaland Protectorate is bounded on the south by the Cape Colony, on the east by the South African Republic, on the north by the British South Africa Company's territory and the Zambesi River, and on the west by German territory. Its area is estimated at about 386,200 square miles, and the native population at about 100,000. The European population does not exceed 500.

History.

During the year 1885 Sir Charles Warren, who was in command of an expedition despatched from England to pacify Southern Bechuanaland, where for some time previously hostilities had been proceeding between the Bechuana and Boers from the South African Republic, visited the principal chiefs in Northern Bechuanaland (known as the Bechuanaland Protectorate) Khama, Gaseitse, and Sebele, and as a result a British Protectorate was proclaimed over their territories. No further steps were taken until the year 1891, when by an Order in Council dated 9th May, the limits of the Bechuanaland Protectorate were more clearly defined, and the High Commissioner was authorised to appoint such officers as might appear to him to be necessary to provide for the administration of justice, the raising of revenue, and generally for the peace, order, and good government of all persons within the limits of the order. Sir Sidney Shippard, the Administrator of Bechuanaland was appointed Resident Commissioner, and an Assistant Commissioner was appointed for the Northern Protectorate and another for the Southern Protectorate.

For fiscal and several other purposes the Protectorate was treated as a portion of the Crown Colony of British Bechuanaland, until the latter was annexed to the Cape Colony on the 15th November, 1895. Since this date the Bechuanaland Protectorate has been governed as a separate territory under the name of the territory of the Bechuanaland Protectorate, and the form of government is very similar to that which obtains in Basutoland. There is a Resident Commissioner, who is under the direction of the High Commissioner, and there are two Assistant Commissioners, one stationed at Palapye, Khama's town, in the Northern Protectorate, and the other at Gaborones in the Southern Protectorate. For the maintenance of law and order there are two troops of police, one European and the other Native, each 60 strong, who are stationed in small detachments at various places in the Protectorate.

Climate, &c

The climate is generally healthy excepting on the north-eastern border along the Crocodile River where, during the summer months, malarial fever is prevalent.

The principal chiefs are:

1. Sekgomi, who lives at Lake N'Gami, near which there is a small detachment of police.
2. Khama, Chief of the Bamangwato, whose town is Palapye.
3. Linchwe, Chief of the Bakhatla, who lives at Mochudi.
4. Sebele, Chief of the Pakwena, who lives at Molepolole.
5. Bathoen, Chief of the Bangwaketsi, who lives at Ramoutsu.

The railway, which will eventually connect Buluwayo with the coast, is being hurried through the Protectorate, and is likely to prove of great advantage to the territory.

There is a bi-weekly postal service between the Cape Colony and Rhodesia, and there are post offices or postal agencies at all the more important stopping places along the route. The postal department is administered by the Postmaster-General of the Cape Colony.

No distinction was made between the accounts relating to the Crown Colony of British Bechuanaland and those of the Bechuanaland Protectorate, and consequently no figures showing revenue and expenditure can now be given.

Establishment.

Resident Commissioner, F. J. Newton, C.M.G., 1,000l., and 200l. travelling allowance.

Accountant to Resident Commissioner, Barry May, 350l.

Clerk to Resident Commissioner, Albert Russell.

Assistant Commissioner Northern Protectorate, J. A. Ashburnham, 600l.

Clerk, G. S. Vintcent, 250l.

Assistant Commissioner Southern Protectorate, W. H. Surmon, 800l., and 200l. travelling allowance.

Clerk, J. Ellenberger, 300l., and 50l. travelling allowance.

Police.

European Troop:—

Captain, J. A. H. Wallford, 500l.

Engineer Officer, Major F. Panzera 25l. per diem, and 100l. per annum as Inspector of public works.

Paymaster, H. Greener 20s. per diem.

Lieutenants Hon. D. Marsham, A. P. Williams, A. B. Phipps, W. Scholefield, 300l. each.

Ordnance and Commissariat Officer, W. J. Hepworth, 400l.
Quartermaster, Captain F. Tighe, 400l.
Medical Officers, F. A. A. Holmden, and E. C.
F. Garraway, 485l. each.

Native Troop:
Captain, F. Enghacht-Moony 450l.
Lieutenants H. Fielding, H. Martin, C. Griffiths,
300l. each.

