BRITISH SOUTH AFRICA COMPANY.

Under Rhodesia is included the whole of the region lying to the north and west of the South African Republic and the southern boundaries of the Congo Free State, and having as its eastern and western boundaries the Portuguese and German spheres. The River Zambezi divides it into two portions, which are now officially designated as Northern and Southern Rhodesia respectively.

#### Southern Rhodesia.

The western boundary of Southern Rhodesia is defined by the Anglo-German Agreement of 1890, the sphere of influence reserved to Germany being bounded (1) by a line from the mouth of the Orange River along the north bank to the point of its intersection by E. long. 20°; (2) from thence along E. long. 20° its intersection by S. lat. 22°, and thence eastward along that parallel...
to its intersection by E. long. 21°, and following that degree northward to its intersection by S. lat. 18°, it runs eastward along that parallel till it reaches the River Chobe, and descends the centre of the main channel of that river to its junction with the Zambezi, where it terminates.

Its eastern boundary, defined by the Anglo-Portuguese Agreement of the 11th June, 1891, is a line starting from a point opposite the mouth of the River Áróangwa or Loangwa, and running directly southwards as far as S. lat. 16°, follows that parallel to its intersection with E. long. 31°; and thence eastward direct to the point where the River Mazoe is intersected by E. long. 33° it follows that degree southward to its intersection by S. lat. 18° 30′; thence it follows the upper part of the eastern slope of the Manica Plateau southwards to the centre of the main channel of the Sabi, follows that channel to its confluence with the Lunde, whence it strikes direct to the N.E. point of the frontier of the South African Republic, and follows the eastern frontier of the Republic, and the frontier of Swaziland to the River Maputo.

In tracing the frontier along the slope of the plateau no territory west of E. long 32° 30′ is to be comprised in the Portuguese sphere; and no territory east of E. long. 33° is to be comprised in the British sphere, but if necessary the line is to be deflected so as to leave Mutassa in the British sphere, and Massi-kessi in the Portuguese sphere.

In 1888 the southern region was declared to be within the British sphere of influence, and on the 29th October, 1889, a Royal Charter was granted to the British South Africa Company, conferring upon it large powers of administration to carry out the objects for which it was formed, the principal being to extend northwards the railway and telegraph systems of the Cape Colony and Bechuanaland, to encourage emigration and colonisation, to promote trade and commerce, and to develop and work mineral and other concessions.

The territory is divided into the two provinces known as Matabeleland (the eastern portion), and Mashonaland (the western). The former is inhabited by Matabeles and allied and subordinate races, while the latter is peopled by a number of disintegrated but kindred tribes who are conveniently grouped together under the one generic name of Mashonas.

Early in 1890 a police force of Europeans was raised and equipped, and in June of that year, after obtaining permission from King Lo’ Bengula, a pioneer expedition on a large scale was organised to cut a road from a point on the Macloutsie River, a tributary of the Limpopo, through the south-eastern part of Matabeleland into Mashonaland, the objective point of the expedition being Mount Hampden, near which large belts of gold-bearing quartz were known to exist. This point was reached on 12th Sept., 1890. The pioneers were then disbanded, and, in accordance with the agreement made with them, were allowed to peg off auriferous claims.

In July 1893 the Matabele made a raid into Mashonaland, and killed several natives living under the Company’s protection, near Victoria, when they were attacked and driven back by the Company’s Police. After an unsuccessful attempt to arrange matters preparations were made for the invasion of Matabeleland to anticipate an expected attack on the Bechuanaland Protectorate and Mashonaland. The Company’s Police and a large force of volunteers and native allies advanced on Buluwayo from the north and east, while the Bechuanaland Police, which had been largely reinforced, advanced with Khama and some 2,000 of his men by way of Tati from the south. Two successful engagements were fought by the Company’s force near Buluwayo, in which the Matabele suffered very severely. The Bechuanaland Police were also attacked by a strong force of Matabele, which they repulsed with great loss. Lo Bengula fled, and Buluwayo was occupied, and a force sent in pursuit of the king.

This force was unfortunately divided by the sudden rising of the River Shangani, and Major Wilson with a small party of men were after a heroic resistance killed to a man. Arrangements for the future administration of the country were completed by the High Commissioner and Mr. Rhodes on behalf of the Company. Lo Bengula, who was said to be endeavouring to escape across the Zambezi, is reported to have died from smallpox or fever.

In 1896, owing to a variety of causes, the Matabele broke out in rebellion, and shortly after the Mashonas followed suit. Imperial troops had to be sent to the assistance of the Company’s police and volunteers, and it was only after a prolonged struggle that peace was secured. The police in the Company’s territories were placed in 1896 under the command of Sir R. Martin, who is directly responsible to the High Commissioner at Cape Town. All the officers of the Force are now appointed by the Secretary of State for the Colonies.

The high plateaux of the Mashonaland and Matabeleland provinces are well adapted for European settlement. Gold and other minerals have been discovered, large forests of Ikusi or native teak and other timber abound, and the country, though desert in parts, is in the main well adapted both for cultivation and agriculture.

Since the grant of the Royal Charter, the Company has extended the Cape Government Railway system from Kimberley to Vryburg, a distance of 126 miles, and this section has since been taken over by the Cape Government. The Company has also formed the Bechuanaland Railway Company, Limited, which has continued the railway from Vryburg to Buluwayo, a distance of 579 miles. This section was opened for traffic in November, 1897. A survey is to be undertaken for the purpose of constructing a line from Buluwayo to the Victoria Falls, thus opening up the mineral resources of the north-west districts; it will tap one of the largest sources of labour supply in Africa, and for mining purposes one of the best. It is confidently expected that in due time light railways will radiate from the “Trunk Line,” bringing the various mining centres into direct communication with the Cape Colony. The Company has also extended the telegraph system from Mafeking to Salisbury, in Mashonaland, a distance of over 800 miles. As a consequence of the Matabele Campaign of 1893, to which reference is made above, the extension of the telegraph was carried out from Palapye to Buluwayo, where an office was opened on the 9th July, 1894. This line is now extended to Charter, via Gwelo, a further distance of 212 miles, thus placing Buluwayo in direct communication with Salisbury. The telegraph line has also been extended from Salisbury, via Umtali, to Beira, at the mouth of the Pungwe River, on the East Coast, the principal port for the
commerce of the Mozambique Company's territories, and for the eastern parts of Rhodesia, stations have been opened at Matokong, Ramoutsas, Gaberones, Mochudi, Palla, Palapye, Macloutsie, Tuli, Nuanetsi, Victoria, Charter, Buluwayo, Gwelo, Selukwe, Mangwe, Salisbury, Mazoe, Umtali, Headlands, &c., &c. Telephone communication has been established between Buluwayo and the districts S., S.E. and N.E. This undoubtedly will be a great boon to the mining industries.

At the instance of Mr. Rhodes, the African Transcontinental Telegraph Company, Limited, was incorporated on the 27th December, 1892, with a capital of £140,000, with the object of extending the Company's telegraph system from Salisbury, Mashonaland, across the Zambezi, to Zomba, in Nyasaland, and thence via Lakes Nyasa and Tanganyika to Uganda, the ultimate object being to connect with the terminus of the Egyptian Government system of telegraphs at Wady Halfa, placing Cape Town in through communication with Cairo. About 200 miles of line are in working order; at present it is working very satisfactorily. It has now been determined to start the line from New Umtali through the Inyangani district to Mount Bismarck, in Mashonaland, joining the existing line at Tete on the Zambezi.

The line is opened (from Tete to Chikwawa 87½ miles; Chromo to Chikwawa (Branch Line) 46 miles; Chikwawa to Blantyre 25 miles; Blantyre to Zomba 40 miles; Zomba to Liwonde 33½ miles; Liwonde to Ft. Johnston 44½ miles.

The construction northwards along the W. Shore of Lake Nyasa is being rapidly carried on, and it is expected that satisfactory progress will be made, and the Southern Shore of Lake Tanganyika will be reached by the middle of 1898.

A regular postal service has been established. By the new postal route via Buluwayo, it is possible to communicate by letter between London and Salisbury in from 26 to 28 days of which 8 are occupied by the journey from Cape-town. The mails also run weekly between Salisbury, Umtali and Beira, in 5 days, thus providing a local East Coast service. The coaches running between the various districts afford also transport for both passengers and parcels. The latter service is being rapidly extended and improved; the rates have been considerably reduced. The East Coast Railway is also to be continued from New Umtali to Salisbury, this is mere question of time. The contractors have been bound down to a time limit, and by the end of the year (1898), the railway will be finished, if not finished within a shorter time than that. The inhabitants of Mashonaland are looking forward to the advent of this line, as the development of mining and other industries is seriously handicapped by the present existing high rates of transport charged from railhead. This route will tap an important agricultural, and what is now believed to be a rich mining district.

Regular gold-workings were not commenced until July, 1891. In Mashonaland several distinct goldfields have been discovered, viz.:—

| District                  | Estimated Length | Width |
|---------------------------|------------------|-------|
| Victoria                  | 70               | 20    |
| Manica                    | 50               | 14    |
| Hartley Hill              | 40               | 30    |
| Mazoe                     | 40               | 30    |
| Lo Magonda                | 30               | 25    |

Abercorn, Lo Magonda, Kaiser Wilhelm, Concession Hill, &c.

Since the occupation of Matabeleland discoveries of gold-bearing districts have rapidly succeeded each other, finds having been made at Buluwayo, Sebakwe, Gwelo, Matopo, Bombesi, Belingwe, Shangani, Selukwe, Gwanda, etc. On the 7th May, 1894, 7,003 claims were reported as pegged out in Matabeleland.

In addition the following number of claims in Mashonaland had been registered before end of July, 1893:—

| Claim          | Number |
|----------------|--------|
| Umfuli         | 8,872  |
| Mazoe          | 6,265  |
| Victoria       | 5,871  |
| Lo Magonda     | 2,375  |
| Salisbury      | 3,290  |
| Manica         | 7,624  |

34,297

In addition to gold, other minerals have been found, and several claims have been pegged off on reefs showing silver, copper, blende, tin, antimony, arsenic, and lead, while deposits of nitrate of potassium and plumbago, and extensive coalfields, have also been discovered.

Towns have rapidly sprung up in all the principal mining areas. The principal of these are, Salisbury, Buluwayo, Umtali, Gwelo, Victoria, Melsetter and Enkeldoorn. Deputations sent into Mashonaland by Transvaal, Orange Free State, and Cape Colony farmers have reported in very favourable terms on the agricultural prospects of Mashonaland. A "trek" of farmers from the Orange Free State has already entered the country, and others are being organised, and a large number of farms have been allotted under the Company's land laws. In Mashonaland alone by September, 1894, farms representing a total of 1,722,274 acres had been actually surveyed; it was estimated that in Matabeleland 800 farms, aggregating 4,800,000 acres had been beacons.

Printed newspapers are published at Salisbury (2), Buluwayo (3), Umtali, and Gwelo. Hotels have been established at frequent intervals along the roads connecting Buluwayo, Salisbury, Victoria and Umtali, and comfortable hotels are to be found in all the townships, as well as substantial brick buildings of every description. Branches of the Standard Bank and African Banking Corporation have been opened at Salisbury, Buluwayo, Gwelo, and Umtali; government offices and churches built, hospitals erected, and order and good government throughout the country provided for. Salisbury and Buluwayo are municipalities, with locally elected town councils, while the requirements of the other towns are provided for by Sanitary Boards with extensive powers of local management. Immediately upon the occupation of Buluwayo, a settled local government was adopted, with the result that as early as the end of August, 1894, there were 78 brick buildings erected, 61 in course of erection, and a white population of 2,020.

The Company has from time to time equipped and despatched expeditions into various parts of Central Africa, as the result of which it has secured mining and administrative concessions from many chiefs.

The territories within the Company's sphere of influence north of the Zambezi (Northern Rhodesia) have been placed under the administration of Major Forbes, and arrangements have now been made for the organising of a Police Force.
The capital of the Company is £3,500,000, out of which £500,000 has not been issued, and of the remainder two-thirds are represented by cash subscriptions. The Company is already in receipt of revenue from mining, trading, and professional licences, stand holdings, postal and telegraph services, and the railway. A report was issued in April, 1898. The revenue for the previous financial year (to 31st March) was £196,653.

Certain changes in the Company's administration are now proposed. They are detailed in a paper (C. 8732), laid before Parliament in Feb., 1898, and will require a Supplementary Charter and Order in Council to carry them into effect.

The London office of the Company is 15, St. Swithin's Lane, E.C.

President, Duke of Abercorn, K.G.
Directors, Earl Grey, Lord Gifford, F.C., George Cawston.
Secretary, Herbert Canning.

Civil Officers of the Company.
Administrators' Department,
Administrator, The Right Hon. Earl Grey.
Commandant of Police,

