BRITISH CENTRAL AFRICA.*

The boundaries of this territory, as defined by the Anglo-Portuguese Agreement, are a line starting from the eastern shore of Lake Nyasa at the point of the parallel of the confluence of the Rivers Rovuma and Msinge, and following the shore southwards as far as 18° 30' S. lat., whence it runs S.E. to the eastern shore of Lake Chiuta, which it follows; thence in a direct line to the eastern shore of Lake Chilwa, or Shirwa, which it follows to its south-easternmost point; thence in a direct line to the easternmost affluent of the River Ruo, and thence along that affluent, and subsequently the centre of the channel of the Ruo to its confluence with the River Shiré.

From the confluence of the Ruo and Shiré the boundary follows the centre of the channel of the latter river to a point just below Chiwanga, and thence due west to the watershed between the Zambezi and the Shiré, and follows the watershed between those rivers, and afterwards between the former river and Lake Nyasa, until it reaches south latitude 14°.

From thence it runs south-west to the point where south latitude 15° meets the River Aroangwa or Loangwa, and follows the mid-channel of that river to its junction with the Zambezi.

On the west the line follows the centre of the channel of the Upper Zambezi, starting from the Katima rapids up to the point where it reaches the territory of the Barutse Kingdom. That territory to remain within the British sphere, and its limits to the westward, which will constitute the boundary between the British and Portuguese spheres of influence, are to be decided by a joint Anglo-Portuguese Commission.

In the early part of 1891 Her Majesty's Government extended the field of operations of the Company's Charter so as to include the whole of the British sphere north of the Zambezi, except Nyasaland, under which name are included certain districts in the Lake Nyasa region, where British missionaries had been settled for over 15 years, and the African Lakes Company had been at work for the same period, and which in 1889 were declared to be within the British sphere of influence. On 14th May, 1891, the Nyasaland districts were proclaimed as being under the protectorate of Great Britain, their boundaries being thus defined:—

On the east and south by the Portuguese dominions, and to the west by a frontier starting on the south from the point where the boundary of the Portuguese dominions is intersected by the boundary of the Conventional Free Trade Zone, defined in the first article of the Berlin Conference Act, following that line northwards to the point where it meets the line of the geographical Congo basin, defined in the same article, and thence along the latter line to the point where it touches the boundary between the British and German spheres defined in the 2nd paragraph of the 1st article of the agreement of the 1st July, 1890.

British Central Africa is divided into the British Central Africa Protectorate, representing the country formerly known as Nyasaland, and the British Sphere of Influence beyond. The first named is administered by the Imperial Commissioner under the directions of the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, and the second by the British South Africa Chartered Company.

All the officials who exercise magisterial duties hold a commission signed by Her Majesty's Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. The whole of the expenses of administering the Protectorate are borne by the Imperial Government.

The Commissioner and Consul-General and Consul and Deputy Consul, are wholly paid by the Foreign Office. Major I. Forbes represents the British South Africa Company.

The Imperial Government maintains a naval force on the River Zambezi, River Shiré, and on Lake Nyasa, consisting of five gunboats, H.M. ships "Herald," "Mosquito," "Dove," "Adventure," and "Pioneer." There are naval stations at Chinde (the only navigable mouth of the

* For most of the information as to this territory, the Editors are indebted to Commissioner Sir Harry H. Johnston, K.C.H.
Zambezi); at Chiromo (River Shiré); at Mpimbi (Upper Shiré); at Fort Johnston and at Fort Maguire (at the entrance to the Shiré and on the south coast of Lake Nyasa). At Chinde is a small plot of land, known as the "British Concession," specially granted by the Portuguese Government, where all goods in transit for British Central Africa are allowed to be transhipped free of customs duty.

The armed force necessary to maintain order within the Protectorate and the sphere of influence beyond, and to check the slave trade, consists of a corps of 200 Sikhs, seconded from active service in the Indian Army, and allowed to serve in British Central Africa for three years (being relieved by fresh arrivals at the end of that period of service), and also of 600 to 800 black police, locally recruited. This force is officered by English officers and Sikh N.C.O. officers. There is also a good armament of artillery and mountain guns supplied by the Imperial Government.

Communications are maintained between British Central Africa and the sea (the chief "port" being Chiromo at the junction of the Rivers Ruo and Shiré) by H.M. gunboats, and by the river steamers of the African Lakes Company, Sharer's Zambezi Traffic Company, the African International Flotilla Company, and the British Central Africa administration. These vessels meet at Chinde with the ocean-going steamers of the Ronnie Aberdeen line (London to Natal and Chinde), the German East Africa Steamship Company (whose steamers connect Chinde with Mozambique, Zanzibar, Southampton, and Bombay), and the Portuguese Royal Mail service, and of the Union Steamship Company.

The chief town of British Central Africa is Blantyre, in the Shiré Highlands, where there is a population of about 100 Europeans and 6,000 natives. Other towns and settlements are: Zomba (the headquarters of the administration), Chiromo, Katunga, Chikwawa, Mpimbi, Fort Lister, Fort Anderson, and Domasi, all more or less in the Shiré Highlands, or on the River Shiré. Fort Johnston, Fort Maguire, Livingstonia, Bandawe, Likoma, Deep Bay, Fort Hill, and Karonga, are on or near Lake Nyasa; Fife, Abercorn, Kituta are in the Tanganyika District; and Rhodesia and Mpata on Lake Mweru. A new station was also in process of formation at Johnston Falls on the Upper Luapula River, near Bangweolo called Fort Rosebery, but this has been temporarily abandoned owing to troubles with a native chief.

The Mission settlements on the Shiré Highlands and on Lake Nyasa have schools attached to them. The chief colonies of Europeans are to be met with at these settlements; the total number of Europeans at present settled in British Central Africa being over 300, of whom about 280 are British subjects.

In the lower part of British Central Africa a number of Indian traders have already begun to establish themselves. The native population of the whole of British Central Africa is about 3,000,000, but large portions are devoid of a single human inhabitant owing to the fearful devastation caused in the past by the slave raids of the Arabs and black Portuguese. In fact it may be said that the native population, with the exception of the Barutse country (which is thickly populated), is chiefly congregated in that portion of the territory which is more or less under British administration.

The Shiré Province, which is that portion of the Protectorate lying between the south-west, south, and south-east shores of Lake Nyasa and the Zambezi, is now governed very much on the lines of a Crown colony. Good roads are being made in all directions, life and property are safe, and the bulk of the European population is congregated here. This province is remarkable for the extraordinary development of coffee planting which has taken place within the last few years, the coffee grown in the Shiré Highlands being of remarkable excellence. The chief trade on Lake Nyasa is in ivory. Elephants are still very abundant over all British Central Africa, which furnishes probably a fourth of the ivory exported from Africa, though a good deal of it passes into the Portuguese possessions on the Zambezi, the Congo Free State, or German East Africa. Other articles of export are India-rubber, oil seeds, rhinoceros horns, hippopotamus teeth, strophonthus seed, bees wax, and rice. The latter article is grown on the shores of Lake Nyasa in great perfection; the Administration has recently introduced the cultivation of wheat, which promises to be very successful. It has also introduced oats and barley, which thrive remarkably on the uplands, and has also made experiments with merino sheep and Natal ponies, both of which kinds of stock seem likely to prosper on the elevated plateau.

The climate on the whole is healthier than the greater part of tropical Africa, but cannot be called salubrious for Europeans in general, chiefly owing to the great discomforts which at present attend a settler's life in an undeveloped country. A good deal of the sickness seems to arise from the malaria caused by tilling the soil for the first time, and the health records show that as the country becomes opened up it proves much healthier for Europeans than in its virgin state. Curiously enough, most of the complaints arise from cold and not from heat, which is nowhere very excessive, except on one or two days in the height of the summer. On the elevated plateaus and mountain ranges, which represent so large a proportion of the territory, the climate is chilly, especially during the winter months, and fires are burned nearly all the year round in the Europeans' houses.

The attention of capitalists is being directed to the great possibilities of trade on the Zambezi and the waterways connecting it with the lakes.

Establishment of the Protectorate.

Commissioner and Consul-General, Alfred Sharpe, C.B., 1,400l.
Consul and Deputy Commissioner, Capt. W. H. Manning, 800l.
Vice-Consul, Agent and Head Postmaster, Chinde, R. C. F. Greville, 400l.
Consul-Agent, Assistant-Agent and Post-Master, Chinde, Henry Wallis, 225l.
Assistant Deputy Commissioner, Capt. F. B. Pearce, 700l.
Twelve Collectors and twenty-one Assistant-Collectors.

Section 2. Military and Police.

Senior Commandant, W. H. Manning, 700l.
Second Officer, Lieut. A. R. H. Garden, 600l.
Third Officer, Lieut. A. S. Cobbe, 500l.
