BRITISH BECHUANALAND.

Situation and Area.
The Colony of British Bechuanaland is bounded on the east by the South African Republic, on the south by the Cape Colony, on the west by the 20th meridian of east longitude, and on the north by the Nosop or Oup River, between its intersection by the 20th meridian of east longitude and its junction with the Molopo River, thence by the Molopo River to its junction with the Ramathlabama Spruit and thence by the said Spruit to the frontier of the South African Republic. The area of the territory included by these boundaries is 51,000 square miles.

The Protectorate over Bechuanaland and the Kalahari extends westward to the 20th meridian of east longitude, and northward to the 22nd parallel of south latitude. The area of the Protectorate is about 386,200 square miles. The country to the northward, as far as the Zambesi River, has been declared to be within the sphere of exclusively British influence and protection. A Royal Charter has been granted to the British South Africa Company, which is operating in this district.

History.
As a consequence of the Convention of London concluded on the 27th February, 1884, between Her Majesty and the South African Republic, it was decided by Her Majesty's Government to establish a protectorate in Bechuanaland, with the special object of protecting two chiefs named Mankoroane (chief of the Batlapins), and Montsioa (chief of the Barolongs). The cases of the chiefs were very similar. Mankoroane had a rival named Massouw, who was supported by certain Boers; whilst Montsioa had a rival, similarly supported, named Moshette. In each case the native supported by the Boers had been victorious in the hostilities which had taken place, and in the peace agreements which followed it was provided that the European volunteers should receive grants of land chiefly out of the former possession of the defeated chiefs. The allies of Massouw had constituted themselves into a Republic styled Stellaland, and the allies of Moshette into one styled Land Goosen, or the Land of Goshen. The Stellalanders succeeded to a great extent in occupying the lands thus carved out for them, and in organising a government. The Goshenites had not been so successful, and hostilities between them and Montsioa were still proceeding. In pursuance of the resolution to establish a protectorate, Mr. John Mackenzie, who had long lived with Mankoroane as a missionary, was appointed Deputy to the High Commissioner for Bechuanaland, and proceeded to Mankoroane's town of Taungs, where, on the 3rd May, 1884, he accepted from that chief a cession of his rights of government. After some ineffective negotiations with
the white inhabitants of Stellaland, he proceeded to Mafeking, where, on the 22nd May, he negotiated a treaty with Montsioa similar to that obtained from Mankoroane. On his way back he visited the western chiefs and obtained treaties from them. All this time a police force had been in course of organisation at Kimberley and Taungs, but the work proceeded slowly, and there were no men available to keep the peace between Montsioa and the Goshenites. A few days before Mr. Mackenzie's arrival at Mafeking, Mr. Bethell, a white adviser of Montsioa, had led the tribe to burn part of the Goshenites' town. This was followed by reprisals on the part of the Goshenites, and finally a general engagement took place on the 31st July, when Montsioa's forces were completely routed, 100 tribesmen being killed, and also Mr. Bethell and a Mr. Walker, and the chief was driven to take refuge in his stockade at Mafeking. At this point the South African Republic intervened; Commandant-General Joubert brought about a so-called peace and settlement of the country, which included the destruction of Montsioa's laager and the absorption of all his country by the freebooters, except ten farms, or say about 60,000 acres. This agreement was immediately repudiated by Mr. Cecil Rhodes, who had succeeded Mr. Mackenzie as Deputy-Commissioner. Montsioa was also induced to offer to place himself and his tribe under the South African Republic; and the President, with the assent of the Volksraad, issued a proclamation, taking Montsioa, and also Moschette, under the protection of the Republic, subject to the approval of Her Majesty the Queen, under Article IV. of the Convention of London, of 1884.

Her Majesty's Government, at once disapproved the proclamation, and at the same time took steps to reinstate Montsioa. Arrangements were made for collecting and despatching to Bechuanaland a force of about 4,000 men of all arms, including 2,000 irregular cavalry, under the immediate command of Sir Charles Warren, R.E. (now G.C.M.G.), who received also a civil commission as Special Commissioner for Bechuanaland. Whilst the military preparations were proceeding the Cape Premier and the Treasurer visited the country and concluded an arrangement with the Goshenites. This settlement was, however, regarded by Her Majesty's Government as unsatisfactory, and Sir Charles Warren was consequently directed to proceed and occupy the country, which he did without meeting with any armed opposition. He remained in military occupation of the country until August, 1885, completely restoring tranquillity, and engaging in many useful labours for the permanent pacification of the country. These labours included the marking off of the Transvaal and Bechuanaland boundary, as laid down by the London Convention of 1884, and visiting the chiefs of Northern Bechuanaland, Gositseve, Sechele, and Khama, over whom Her Majesty's Government had declared a protectorate in March, 1885.

To return to the affairs of the settlers in Stellaland, it may be mentioned that after leaving Montsioa at the end of May, Mr. Mackenzie arrived at a settlement of the affairs of the district with some of the persons with whom he had previously been treating, which involved a recognition to a great extent of the land claims of the Stellalanders, and of the money obligations of the Stellaland Government, and the assumption by the British Government of the administration of the country. Soon after Mr. Mackenzie was recalled to Cape Town by Sir Hercules Robinson, and whilst there, in view of the disfavour with which his appointment and proceedings were regarded by the Cape Ministry, he, on the 19th August, tendered his resignation.

In the meantime Mr. Rhodes had been sent to replace him in Bechuanaland, assisted by Commander Graham Bower, R.N., Sir Hercules Robinson's secretary. These gentlemen arrived at an agreement with the Stellalanders on the 8th September, rescinding Mr. Mackenzie's arrangement and restoring the temporary administration of its affairs to the white inhabitants, under the supervision of the British Government pending a final settlement of affairs and the annexation of Bechuanaland to the Cape Colony. Sir Charles Warren declined to endorse this agreement, and in the end the whole land question in British Bechuanaland was relegated to a judicial commission consisting of the present administrator, Sir Sidney Shippard, and two officers.

On the 30th September, 1885, the territory south of the Molopo River and of the Ramathlaba Spruit was declared to be British territory under the name of British Bechuanaland. A commission was issued to the Governor of the Cape of Good Hope to be its governor, with power to legislate by proclamation, and the actual duties of administrator were entrusted to Mr. (now Sir) Sidney Shippard, Sir Charles Warren's force having been withdrawn, a mounted police force was formed for service in British Bechuanaland, and also to patrol and protect the country of the three protected chiefs of Northern Bechuanaland, Gositseve, Sechele, and Khama. Mankoroane and Montsioa now receive a yearly stipend of £300 each from H.M. Government.

Climate, Water Supply, &c.

The climate of Bechuanaland is remarkably healthy. The dryness of the atmosphere neutralises to a great extent the effects of the heat in summer, while in winter the days are bright and tolerably warm, though between sunset and sunrise the cold is often intense owing to the elevation of the country, which may be roughly stated to vary from 4,000 to 4,500 feet above sea-level. The annual rainfall is about 25 inches. During the rainy season, from November to April, the rainfall is often very considerable, and many parts present for a time the appearance of extensive marshes, but the water soon disappears, and in summer most of the rivers or torrent-beds including the Molopo, are dry. Excellent water is however easily procurable at all times by digging in or near the river beds and by sinking wells in any part of the country. Thunderstorms are frequent in the summer, and dust storms from August to November.

The rate of mortality is low. Horse sickness is prevalent from December to May, and disappears when frost first sets in. Horses however become acclimatised, and with due precautions there is reason to believe that horse sickness may eventually disappear.

Industries.

The chief industry is agriculture, and the country is well adapted for the breeding and fattening of cattle. The soil is excellent, especially to the north of the Setlagoli River, and with irrigation and slight culture will produce abundant crops. The black soil of Rooigrond, near Mafeking, is of great fertility. Maize, or "mealies," and Kafir corn are produced in abund-
ance, and also vegetables of all kinds. Acacias and thorn trees abound north of Setlagoli. Well sinking and windmill pumps are found adequate to secure the requisite irrigation. Among natural products the wild indigo is especially remarkable from the excellence of the dye. Cotton also grows wild. Tobacco is being cultivated.

Gold has been discovered near Pitsanie, in the neighbourhood of Mafeking, on the Setlagoli and Maritsani Rivers; at Morokwen, on the borders of the Kalahari; and also near Vryburg and Taungs. Some of the specimens of quartz produced are rich, and small nuggets have been found on the Maritsani. Lead, tin, silver, coal, and iron have also been found.

The value of the external trade cannot be given. The imports, which nearly all come from the Cape Colony, consist of textiles, hardware, and alcohol. The exports, nearly all for the Kimberley market, consist of mealies, wool, hides, cattle, and wood. The territory joined the South African Customs Union, 1 January, 1891.

Means of Communication.

There is a railway from Kimberley to Vryburg, which passes within 3 miles of Taungs, and is being extended further north. In order to escape the imposts on waggons levied by the South African Republic, a loop road for waggons has been made in British Territory so as to avoid Kunana. In addition to these routes there is the western road from Kuruman to Pitsanie. From Mafeking excellent roads branch out in all directions. Shoshong and the country to the north up to the Zambesi may be reached either by the direct route from Molopole, which is badly watered, or by the Notwani and Limpopo or Crocodile Rivers. Mafeking is the emporium of the trade with the interior, and is at present mainly supplied with merchandise brought from Kimberley, since the Cape Colony has allowed rebate to the extent of the difference between the Cape duties and those of Natal.

The temporary military line of telegraph left by Sir Charles Warren has been replaced by a permanent line, extending from Barkly West to Mafeking, a distance of 160 miles, which is thus in telegraphic communication with all parts of the world. This has now been extended to the police camp on the Macloutsie River, and as far north as Fort Salisbury in Mashonaland.

There is a daily post with Cape Town and all parts of the Cape Colony. The English mail leaving Cape Town on Thursday reaches Vryburg on the following Saturday, and Mafeking on the following Tuesday. Letters posted in Mafeking in time for the mail on Thursday evening reach Cape Town in good time for the out-going English mail steamer on the following Wednesday. There is also a post between Kuruman and Taungs, and letters can be sent weekly by post cart to Kanya, Molopolole, Palachwe, Tati, and Gubulawayo in Matobeeland. The branch post to Kuruman leaves Vryburg on Sundays, and Kuruman on Thursdays. Postal business is rapidly increasing. A system of postal drafts and parcels post has also been established.

The Parcel Post has been extended to the Protectorate, and the Money Order business has been extended to the United Kingdom.

Rates of postage to the United Kingdom:

- By all sea route ... 4d. per ½ oz.
- Via Lisbon ... ... 6d. "
settled and has now a farming population. All valid European claims in the Batlapin country have been satisfied, and the remaining extent of land will eventually be disposed of for public purposes. In the neighbourhood of Setlagoli and along the Maritsani River English farmers are now forming various scattered settlements, which bid fair to be a great success, as the land occupied is well watered, highly productive, and admirably suited for cattle, of which improved breeds are being introduced.

Extensive surveys of Native Reserves and Crown lands have been authorised in connection with main triangulation of British Bechuanaland.

The Bechuanaland Border Police.

Colonel Sir F. Carrington, K.C.M.G., raised this useful force while the army of Sir Charles Warren was leaving South Africa, and picked men from other Corps were enrolled, but the force has been chiefly recruited from the young farmers of the Eastern Districts of the Cape Colony, especially from Lower Albany. They are well disciplined, and their uniform and equipments are adapted for the requirements of their service, which are very varied. They have erected fortifications and built their own barracks at Mafeking, Vryburg, and Taungs; they sink wells, and perform countless duties beyond the scope of ordinary troops or police. They are trained as cavalry soldiers, and to act also on occasion as infantry or artillery in connection with the six field guns belonging to the Colony.

Revenue and Expenditure.

| Year   | Local Revenue | Received from Parliamentary grant | Expenditure |
|--------|---------------|----------------------------------|-------------|
| 1885-6 | 7,409         | 56,436                           | 52,762      |
| 1886-7 | 11,757        | 86,945                           | 105,650     |
| 1887-8 | 13,316        | 78,000                           | 75,529      |
| 1888-9 | 15,742        | 76,000                           | 89,094      |
| 1889-90| 18,408        | 89,500                           | 98,371      |
| 1890-91| 45,312        | 115,991                          | 159,645     |
| 1891-92| 52,020        | 118,000                          | 154,700     |
| 1892-93| 52,064        | 100,000                          | 154,615     |

Establishment.

Governor, Sir Henry Brougham Loch, K.C.B. (Capetown).

Administrator and Chief Magistrate, Sir Sidney Godolphin Alexander Shippard, D.C.L., K.C.M.G., 1,800l.

Colonial Secretary and Receiver-General, Francis J. Newton, C.M.G., 750l.

Secretary, J. A. Ashburnham, 420l.

Clerk, G. M. Huntly, 300l. (100l. allowance as Officer in Charge of Stores).

Clerks, W. E. Martin, R. W. Wingfield, 262l. 10s., S. Vintcent, 200l., and S. R. Richardson, 200l.

Collector of Customs, E. C. Baxter, 510l.

Clerks, R. H. Girdwood, 300l.; J. W. Robertson, 200l.

Surveyor-General, F. S. Watermeyer, 800l.

Draughtsmen, L. M. Boddam, J. Fleming, 315l.

Examiner of Diagrams, G. A. Tucker, 200l.

Clerks, F. Windley, E. R. Townsend, 225l.

Inspector of Native Reserves, C. St. Quintin, 420l.

Assistant Inspector of Native Reserves, J. P. McCarthy, 210l.

Collector of Hut Tax, D. Manning, 200l.

Crown Prosecutor, J. Vintcent, 525l.

Local Auditor, D. Ward.

District of Vryburg.

Civil Commissioner and Resident Magistrate, R. Tillard, 600l.

Chief Clerk and Assistant R.M., C. R. Chalmers, 325l.

Registrar of Deeds, M. C. Genis, 420l.

Accounting Clerk, Barry May, 315l.

District Surgeon, W. M. Nugent, L.K. Q.C. P.I., 125l. (allowances).

Clerk, E. L. Broughton, 200l.

District of Mafeking.

Civil Commissioner and Resident Magistrate, G. J. Boyes, 500l.

Clerk, J. L. Reid, 262l. 10s.

District Surgeon, Dr. A. P. Green, 100l.

District of Taungs.

Civil Commissioner and Resident Magistrate, Major Stanley Lowe, 500l.

Clerk, T. J. Clinkscale, 200l.

District Surgeon, T. A. Mast, 100l.

District of Kuruman.

Civil Commissioner and Resident Magistrate, C. B. Scholtz, 525l.

Clerk, F. D. Buchanan, 200l.

District Surgeon, J. Hartley, 100l.

District of Gordonia.

Civil Commissioner and Resident Magistrate, C. Bam, 525l.

Clerk, C. E. I. Jay, 200l., and 30l. allowance.

District Surveyor, G. Marquardt, 100l.

Police.

Commandant, Major H. Goold-Adams, 600l.

Major, R. Grey, 25s. per diem.

Captains, G. Ellis, S. D. Browne, J. W. Fuller, and Hon. C. J. Coventry, 20s. per diem.

Adjutant, J. A. H. Walford, 20s. per diem.

Paymaster, H. Greener, 20s. per diem.

Lieutenants, A. Wight, C. F. M. McGregor, A. V. Gosling, A. Snow, Hon. D. Marsham, and A. B. Walsh, 13s. per diem.

Sub-Lieutenants, A. P. W. Williams, C. W. Monro, H. Crichton-Brown, G. V. Drury, 11s. per diem.

Ordnance and Commissariat Officer, W. J. Hepworth, 360l.

Quartermaster, Capt. F. Molyneux, 20s. per diem.

Medical Officers, A. Vigne and E. C. F. Garraway, 450l. per annum.

Medical Officers, E. C. F. Garraway and A. Vigne, 450l. each.

Bechuanaland Protectorate.

Assistant Commissioner resident with Khama, Rev. J. S. Moffat, C.M.G., 800l.

Assistant Commissioner for the Protectorate, W. H. Surmon, 800l., and 200l. allowance.

Secretary, J. Ellenberger, 300l., and 50l. allowance.
