NIGER COAST PROTECTORATE.

The British Protectorate of the Niger Coast was formally assumed in July, 1884. It extends along the coast of Africa from the Benin River (where it joins the boundary of Lagos) to the mouth of the Rio del Rey at 9° east longitude. The part between the Forcados River and the Nun mouth of the Niger is claimed by the Royal Niger Company; the remainder forms the "Oil Rivers Protectorate." The Niger itself is worked exclusively by the river steamers of the Niger Company. The numerous rivers, creeks, and estuaries in this part of the West African coast have received the name of the "Oil Rivers;" from the fact of their producing the bulk of the palm oil which constitutes the chief export of West Africa. They are alleged to be branches of the Niger, and form the delta of that river, but most of them have independent sources. The estuaries of these rivers are connected by a network of more or less navigable creeks, so that with a small expenditure of labour inland navigation might be made practicable from Dahomey to the Cameroons.

Some of the principal of these rivers are: the Benin, an independent river rising in the low range of hills flowing in a deep but tortuous channel through a country of dense forest, but with a shallow and dangerous bar; the Forcados River, the main outlet of the Wari; the Brass River, connected by creeks with the Niger. From the Oguta Lake, which lies a short distance east of the Niger, to the north of Abo, where the delta begins in the rainy season, flow the Opobo River on the east, and the New Calabar River...
on the west, which enter the sea by the broad estuaries known as the Sambrero, the New Calabar, the Bonny, the Andani, and the Apoba Rivers, and draining a fertile undulating country, watered by numerous little brooks, and with a rich soil free from marsh, and where cattle appear to thrive.

Further east is the Old Calabar Estuary, mainly formed by the great Cross River, some 400 or 500 miles in length, which drains with its affluents the Old Calabar, Akpa, Akpayafe, and the Ndiana Rivers; the high mountain ranges running north-west from the Cameroon Mountains to the hills round the confluence of the Niger and the Benin.

Communications.

Communication with Europe is maintained by the African and the British and African Steamship Companies, running regularly between Liverpool, Hamburg, Havre, Madeira, the Canary Islands, Sierra Leone, and all the ports in West Africa from Goree to Loanda. They have also a direct line from Liverpool to Old Calabar, calling at Grand Canary, Sierra Leone, Accra, Lagos, and Bonny. The German Woerman line call monthly on their way to and from the Cameroons, and the steamers of the Compagnie "Chargeur Reunio" call monthly at Bonny and Old Calabar. On the Bonny, Brass, Opobo, and Old Calabar Rivers, some of the merchants possess small steamers and launches, which navigate these rivers to some distance inland.

The African Direct Cable Company has stations at Brass and Bonny. Akassa is served from Brass, being only 11 miles through the Creeks.

Chief Towns.

Duke Town, on the Old Calabar river, is about 5 miles above its junction with the Cross River, and is the headquarters of Her Majesty's Consular establishment, and the largest and most important town in the Protectorate, containing a population of about 15,000. Two Protestant missions are established there, and have erected schools and churches. Creek Town, 4 miles beyond, is also an important place, population about 5,000.

Near the mouth of the Opobo River is the town of the same name built by Ja Ja, and about 40 or 50 miles inland near the same river is Bende, a great trading centre for slaves and ivory. In the same district is the great fetish town of Aron which is resorted to from all parts of the Niger delta and the Cross River.

Bonny Town, 8 miles from the sea, on the left bank of the Bonny, is a station of the Church Missionary Society, and contains several European establishments. There is also a European settlement at the mouth of the Brass, possessing a very fine church presented by one of the native chiefs. On the Wari branch of the Protectorate there are several populous towns, but the turbulent character of the natives prevents Europeans from resorting to them.

Benin City, some 60 miles up the river of the same name, is a large town of 40,000 or 50,000 inhabitants, the seat of a powerful theocracy of fetish priests, and used to be famous for its human sacrifices. The trading station and Consular establishment in Benin River is situated about 8 miles from the bar, lying open to the sea breeze, though sand flies and mosquitos abound.

Climate.

This resembles that of other parts of West Africa, in being deadly for Europeans. The temperature ranges between 65° and 95°, and the rainfall is perhaps the heaviest in the world, there being on the coast no very marked distinction between the dry and rainy seasons. Tornadoes and violent thunderstorms prevail in the spring and late autumn, but do relatively little damage.

Products.

Besides the oil palm (Elaeis Guineensis), cotton grows above the delta, and the silk cotton tree is found all over the delta, as well as the tree producing the kola nut. The ground nut is widely cultivated in the interior, but not on the coast. Copal gum and other gums are largely produced, and "shea butter," an almost solid vegetable fat produced from the kernels of the seeds of the Butyrospermum Parkii. The castor oil plant is found all over the delta, and the coco palm and coffee have been successfully introduced there. Rubber trees abound everywhere, and ebony very largely in the Cross River districts. Elephants abound in numbers in the Akpayafe and Ndiana Rivers, and hippopotami in the Cross River.

Inhabitants.

The inhabitants are typical negroes, and though now divided into several distinct tribes, appear to have had a common origin. Among the most prominent tribes are the Dzekri, occupying the lower part of the Benin, and closely allied to the Yorubas; the Idzos, occupying the part of the delta east of the Middleton, and south of the Wari and of the Ibo country; the Ibos, occupying the lower Niger just above the delta, and extending to the Cross River, joining the Ukima-Kimas, are an industrious agricultural people, with fine herds of cattle, who create most of the trade of the delta; and the Efiks and "Quas" in the Old Calabar region. The tribes are all more or less cannibalistic, cannibalism being deeply associated with the ceremonial of the old fetish rites, the "Ju-Ju-Men" or fetish priests being bound at certain times and under certain conditions to eat human flesh. The missionaries have laboured with considerable success to suppress the practice in the towns where they are stationed. Mission stations are situated at Duke Town, Creek Town, Okoyon, on the Old Calabar River, at Ikonotu Creek, Ikwofifi, Ikwana, and Unwana on the Cross River, and also at Ibend, in the Qua Ibo River.

Trade.

Trade is generally conducted by barter, the native traders purchasing the oil or other produce for European goods, and disposing of it in large quantities to the white trader. The total volume of trade is shewn below, the greater part of which is with Great Britain, the remainder with Havre and Hamburg, but carried principally in British ships.

Administration.

The native inhabitants are dealt with principally under their own chiefs, there being a native council, presided over by them, subject to appeal to the consular courts. Europeans are subject to the jurisdiction of the consular courts under the West
African Order in Council, with an appeal to the supreme courts of Lagos, the Gold Coast, and Sierra Leone.

| Imports | Exports | Total | Duty |
|---------|---------|-------|------|
| £748,423 | £780,139 | £1,528,563 | £87,696 |

Revenue.

| Expenditure |
|-------------|
| £88,651 |
| £73,955 |

Commissioner and Consul General, Major Sir Claude Maxwell MacDonald, K.C.M.G., Old Calabar, 2,500l., and 500l. allowances and residence.

Deputy Commissioners and Vice Consuls:

- T. A. Wall, Old Calabar, 600l.
- J. F. Roberts, Old Calabar, 600l.
- W. Cairns Armstrong, Opobo River, 600l.
- K. J. R. Campbell, Bonny River, 600l.
- Capt. D. C. MacDonald, Brass, 600l.
- Capt. H. L. Gallwey (East Lanc. Regt.), Benin and Wari, 600l.
- R. D. Moor, Old Calabar, 600l.

Consular Agents:

- G. Quilter, Old Calabar, 200l. to 300l.
- W. J. Steanies, Bonny, 250l. to 300l.
- C. E. Harrison, Wari, 250l. to 300l.
- G. V. Tanner, Opobo, 250l. to 300l.
- Captain E. Moore-Harper, Wari, 250l. to 300l.
- E. E. Dunn, Brass River, 200l. to 300l.
- R. F. Locke, Benin, 200l. to 300l.
- L. F. W. Holt, Bonny, 200l. to 300l.
- E. J. K. Corder, Wari, 200l. to 300l.
- A. B. Harcourt, Old Calabar, 200l. to 300l.
- C. T. Olliffe, Old Calabar, 200l. to 300l.

Marine Superintendent, Capt. Dundas, R.N., 600l.
Assistant ditto, Capt. John Ross, 400l.

General Service Officer, Rogor Casement, 400l.

Customs Department (Old Calabar).

Director General of Customs, T. A. Wall.
Departmental Officer, P. O’Loughlin, 150l. to 250l.
Chief Clerk, C. K. Bennett, 100l. to 150l.
Statistical Officer, I. B. J. Thomas, 90l. to 100l.
And 32 native officers at various stations.

Niger Coast Irregulars.

Commandant, Capt. E. Price, 600l.
Wing Officers, A. P. Comber, E. F. C. Evanson, C. W. Gallwey, and Capt. A. O. L. Kindersley, 350l. each.
1 sergeant-major, sergeants, corporals privates, 300 in all.

Post Office.

Postmaster-General, T. A. Wall.
Department Officer, W. Broadbent, 150l. to 250l.

Medical Department.

Principal Medical Officer, R. Allmann, 1,000l.
Assistant ditto, J. G. Whittendale, 350l. to 600l.

* Year ended 21st July, 1892.
† All officers have quarters.

District Officers.

Old Calabar, J. B. Meeke.
Opobo, Sydney Thompstone.
Bonny, A. E. Thomson.
New Calabar, E. G. Fenton.
Wari, Felix Roth.
All with 350l. to 600l.

Miscellaneous.

Treasurer, E. Clive Bayley (London).
Consulting Physician, Dr. E. Ogilvie (London).
Analytical Chemist, E. H. Robertson (London).
Standing Counsel, W. C. Biss (London).
Solicitor, W. W. Nicholson (London).

Surveyor’s Department.

Surveyor, John Holmes, 500l., and allowance 100l.
Assistant ditto, M. Ross.
Botanist, H. W. L. Billington, 150l. to 250l., and 24l. personal allowance.

