SOUTH AFRICA.

High Commission.

The office of High Commissioner in and for South Africa, was created by Letters Patent in 1878, and is filled by the Officer administering the Government of the Cape Colony. The High Commissioner is charged with the conduct of British relations with the South African Republic (Transvaal), and the Orange Free State, as well as those with Pondoland, and other native states and tribes outside the Cape Colony and Natal and with the Joint Government of Swaziland. In 1879, a second High Commissioner was appointed, to whom was assigned South-Eastern Africa, including Zululand and Amatongaland, but this arrangement ceased in 1881, when a Special Commissioner for Zulu affairs was appointed, who is also Governor of Natal (and now of Zululand), and conducts the relations with Amatongaland on behalf of the High Commissioner. The High Commissioner for South Africa is also Governor of British Bechuanaland and Basutoland, and supervises the affairs of the Bechuanaland Protectorate, which extends as far north as the Zambesi. The estimated area of the Protectorate to the 22nd parallel is 121,500 sq. miles, and from there to the Zambesi 265,700 sq. miles. The sphere of influence north of the Zambesi includes all territory not acknowledged as belonging to Germany, Portugal, or the Congo, and covers an estimated area of 361,700 sq. miles. The expenses of the High Commission are borne partly by Imperial funds, under Vote 6 of Class V, and partly by the Cape Government. The Administrator of British Bechuanaland is also Resident Commissioner; and in July, 1888, a Resident Commissioner was appointed for Pondoland, who is paid by the Cape Government, the affairs of that country being dealt with, subject to the approval of the High Commissioner, by the Cape Department of Native Affairs. The correspondence with the South African Republic is carried on through a British Agent at Pretoria furnished with a letter of credence to the President. The "Africa Order in Council, 1889" (15th October, 1889), placed upon a systematic footing the jurisdiction exercised by British Consular Officers in parts of Africa outside British territory. The Order enables Consular Courts to be established, with jurisdiction in various parts of Africa (including Madagascar) not subject to any organised administration, over British subjects, and over foreigners in certain circumstances, especially in criminal, admiralty, and maritime cases. The following have been constituted "local jurisdictions" for the purpose of the Order: The Gil Rivers Protectorate (with appeal to Supreme Court of Lagos); the territory of the Imperial British East Africa Company (with appeal to Supreme Court of Natal); the Nyassa districts (with appeal to Supreme Court of the Cape Colony); as well as the Congo Free State and Madagascar (with appeal to Supreme Courts of the Gold Coast Colony and Mauritius respectively).

High Commissioner, Sir H. B. Loch, G.C.M.G., K.C.B. (Cape Town), 3,000l. from Cape, and 1,000l. Imp. Fds

Secretary and Accountant to the High Commissioner, Sir Graham Bower, K.C.M.G., 650l., and personal allowance, 250l.

Assistant Accountant, Albert Browne, 382l. and 50l. as Auditor, Basutoland.

Chief Clerk, J. Smuts, 410l.

Resident Commissioner for Bechuanaland Protectorate, Sir S. G. A. Shippard, K.C.M.G. (Vryburg), 1,800l. (paid by Bechuanaland).

Assistant Commissioner for the Protectorate, J. S. Moffat, C.M.G., 800l. and allowances.

Ditto, W. H. Surmon, 800l.

Resident Commissioner for Pondoland, J. P. Scott, 800l. (paid by Cape Colony).

British Agent at Pretoria, Sir J. A. de Wet, K.C.M.G., 1,500l. (with 500l. for office expenses).

British Consul-General in Nyasaland, H. H. Johnston.

