WESTERN PACIFIC.

High Commission.

The office of High Commissioner in, over, and for the Western Pacific Islands, was created by an Order in Council, cited as the Western Pacific Order in Council of 1877, for the purpose of better carrying out the provisions of the Pacific Islanders' Protection Acts, 1872 and 1875, and to provide a Civil Court for the settlement of disputes between British subjects living in these islands.

The jurisdiction of the High Commissioner extends over all islands in the Western Pacific not being within the limits of the Colonies of Fiji, Queensland, or New South Wales, and not being within the jurisdiction of any civilised power, and includes the Southern Solomon Islands, the New Hebrides, the Tongan or Friendly Islands, the Samoan or Navigators' Islands, and the various small groups of Melanesia. The expenses of the High
Commission are met from Imperial funds, Class V, vote 5, the total in 1890-91 being £1.

The Chief Justice of Fiji, and every other Judge for the time being of the Supreme Court, is by virtue of his office a Judicial Commissioner, and where the attendance of the Chief Justice or other Judge of the Supreme Court is impracticable, the High Commissioner may appoint a Judicial Commissioner for particular purposes or for a particular time.

Deputy Commissioners are appointed by the High Commissioner on behalf of Her Majesty.

The High Commissioner's Court consists of the High Commissioner, the Judicial Commissioners, and the Deputy Commissioners, and in it is vested all her Majesty's civil and criminal jurisdiction exercisable in the Western Pacific Islands.

The Court of a Judicial Commissioner has powers similar to those of the Superior Courts of England, and the Deputy Commissioners have jurisdiction civil and criminal analogous to that of Stipendiary Magistrates and Judges of County Courts, with certain limited powers in respect of probate and letters of administration.

With some few exceptions all decisions of the High Commissioner's Court may be appealed against to the Supreme Court of Fiji.

For the purpose of better carrying out the provisions of the Pacific Islanders' Protection Acts, 1872 and 1875, and in order to deal with cases occurring where there is no resident Deputy Commissioner, certain officers in command of her Majesty's ships of war on the Australian station have been appointed Deputy Commissioners.

In addition to the other means of preserving order the High Commissioner has certain special powers for the deportation of persons whose proceedings endanger the peace of the Islands.

PRINCIPAL GROUPS UNDER THE HIGH COMMISSIONER.

The Tongan, or Friendly Islands, are situated between the 15th and 23rd degrees of west longitude. The islands are most of them of coral formation, but include some active volcanoes, notably Tofua, Kao, and Niufoou (Good Hope Island). The natives belong to the Polynesian race, and are closely allied to the natives of New Zealand, Tahiti, Samoa, and the Sandwich Islands. The islands are very rich in cocoanuts; and copra (the dried kernel of the nut) forms the principal export. Bananas and oranges are also exported from Vavau, in the northern part of the group. There is regular steam communication with Auckland (1,000 miles distant) and Sydney (1,850 miles), and occasional steamers and sailing vessels run between Tonga and Fiji (200 miles). Sailing vessels carry the copra to Europe.

The present king, George Tubon, was the first of its chiefs or kings to establish an effective government over the whole of Tonga, and his rule on the whole has been fairly successful. The king is assisted by a native parliament and a privy council. With the exception of a few Europeans in the Customs, Education, and Medical Departments, the whole of the government officers are Tongans. The tariff resembles that of Fiji and licences are charged for carrying on stores and trades. The revenue and expenditure are each about 16,000l. per annum. According to the official returns the imports and exports were:

| Year | Imports (£) | Exports (£) |
|------|------------|------------|
| 1888 | 48,376     | 66,888     |
| 1889 | 45,240     | 80,306     |
| 1890 | 28,882     | 45,325     |
| 1891 | 51,929     | 75,400     |

but the value of the copra exported is about 20 per cent. too high. The native population is about 19,196; the European about 353. The climate may be considered a healthy one. The thermometer ranges between 53 and 93 degrees Fahrenheit.

There are three Churches, viz., the Wesleyan Mission Church (established over 60 years), with at present about 3,000 adherents only; the Wesleyan "Free Church of Tonga," with about 15,000 adherents; and the Roman Catholic, with about 3,000 adherents. The Free Church was established in 1885, and considerable persecution was inflicted on the adherents of the Mission Church, generally styled "Fakagoo," i.e., subordinate to a foreign Church. In January, 1887, an attempt was made by some escaped native convicts on the life of Mr. Shirley Waldemar Baker, the Premier, an ex-Wesleyan Missionary. Six persons charged with complicity in the attempt were shot. The attempt was made the pretext for increased persecution of the "Fakagoo," or members of the Wesleyan Mission Church, whose houses were pillaged, and who were beaten with clubs and whips till they declared their adhesion to the "Free Church." About 100, whom no illusage could induce to abandon the Mission Church, were ordered to be deported to Pyttaad Island, a barren inhospitable islet south of Tonga; but they were finally allowed to go to Fiji. Shortly after an inquiry was made into the causes of the disturbances by Sir Charles Mitchell. At this inquiry the allegation that the attempt on Mr. Baker's life was due to a "Fakagoo" conspiracy was abandoned, and a letter written by Mr. Baker, purporting to be signed by the king, was addressed to Sir Charles Mitchell, promising an amnesty to political prisoners and freedom of worship. The services in the Mission Church at once recommenced.

In 1890 complaints were made that freedom of worship was still being interfered with; that persons were deprived of their lands and unjustly imprisoned on account of their adherence to the Wesleyan Church; and Tongan officials denied that the king had written to Sir Charles Mitchell promising to accord freedom of worship. Sir John Thurston therefore made a further inquiry, and finding that Mr. Baker was the principal cause of the wrongs endured by the Wesleyans, he, in accordance with the power conferred on the High Commissioner by the Western Pacific Orders in Council, issued an Order prohibiting Mr. Baker from being within the group for a term of two years from the 17th July, 1890. A few days before the issue of the Order, the king, on the request of the leading chiefs, had dismissed the Premier from office, and a fresh Government was formed with a native Premier (Tukuaho). Under the new Government the fullest freedom of worship has been allowed, and the exiles have been recalled from Fiji, the king having requested Sir John Thurston to make the necessary arrangements for their return.
All the natives are taught to read and write, and higher education is provided by colleges established by the Government and by the Wesleyan Mission.

British subjects are subject to the jurisdiction of the Tongan Court only for offences against Tongan laws relating to customs, taxes, quarantine and local police, not recognized as offences against British law. In other respects they are subject to the jurisdiction of the Court of the High Commissioner.

The Samoan or Navigator Islands are situated between the 13th and 15th parallels of south latitude, and the 169th and 174th degrees of west longitude. The inhabitants, about 25,000 in number, belong to the Polynesian race. The islands, which are of volcanic origin, are very fertile. The principal export is copra, but cotton, coffee, and bananas are also exported. A considerable portion of the land has been alienated part of which is cultivated by British and German residents. The Hamburg Commercial and Planting Company of the South Seas has extensive plantations, and also has at Samoa its principal depot for South Sea trade.

No effective Government had been established before 1889. The present King Malietoa was recognised as king in 1879, and Tamasese, his principal opponent, was given the title of Vice-King. In 1884, Tamasese formed a party to depose Malietoa and place himself on the throne. The German Government, which was displeased with Malietoa for refusing to ratify a treaty giving Germany a preponderating influence in the affairs of Samoa, favoured the pretensions of Tamasese. In 1886 a commission was appointed consisting of commissioners from Germany, Great Britain, and the United States, with a view to arrive at an agreement respecting Samoan affairs. After the commissioners had reported to their respective Governments, a conference was held at Washington, but no agreement was arrived at. In 1887 Tamasese, with the assistance of the German forces, obtained possession of the seat of Government; and Malietoa, having surrendered himself to the German Consul-General, was deported in a German man-of-war to West Africa, whence he was afterwards removed to the Marshall group. An attempt was then made to organise an efficient government throughout Samoa under Tamasese, Herr Brandis being made Premier. But after a little while the adherents of Malietoa, under the leadership of his relative Mataafa, took arms against Tamasese, and occupied a position close to Apia, the seat of Government. In December, 1888, at the instance of the German Consul, an ineffectual attempt was made to dislodge Mataafa by an armed party from German men-of-war. The German Government having disapproved the action of their Consul, proposed that a fresh conference should be held. A conference was accordingly held at Berlin, and a convention arrived at between Germany, Great Britain, and the United States with regard to the future government of Samoa. In accordance with this convention, Malietoa was re-instated as king, and a Supreme Court of Samoa was constituted, with a Chief Justice appointed by the three Powers. The Chief Justice is also the king's principal legislative adviser. Further disturbances took place in 1893, and the three powers were compelled to intervene, and Mataafa and some of his followers were removed from the Group to the Marshall Islands.

The township of Apia is managed by a municipal council consisting of six members elected by the ratepayers, and of a president appointed by the three Treaty Powers. Bye-laws for the payment of rates, prevention of diseases, and the preservation of good order are enforced by a municipal magistrate, whose decisions are open to review by the Chief Justice.

British subjects are under the jurisdiction of the high commissioner's court in respect of all criminal offences not cognisable by the municipal magistrate, and in all civil cases (other than suits relating to realty) where both parties are British subjects. The supreme court exercises jurisdiction in all suits relating to real property, or where the parties are of different nationalities, and also exercises complete jurisdiction over the nationals of all countries which have not established their own courts in Samoa.

The London Missionary Society, the Wesleyan Mission of Australasia, and the Roman Catholic Society of Mary have all established churches in Samoa, the adherents of the first named being the most numerous. English and German schools are established in Apia.

Apia, the principal town, has about 350 European inhabitants. The climate is not good, and the heat is frequently oppressive. But plantations situated a few hundred feet above the sea are not unhealthy.

There is regular steam communication with Auckland (distant 1,600 miles) and Sydney (2,450 miles), and occasional steam and sailing vessels run between Samoa and Fiji (450 miles).

The Union Group consists of three small islands, Fakaofo, Oatafu, and Nukunono, about 9° S. latitude and 172° W. longitude. The islands are coral atolls, and the principal article of trade is copra. The natives are of Polynesian race, and are under 1,000 in number. They are ruled by their own chiefs with the assistance of native councils. A British Protectorate has been proclaimed over this group. The inhabitants are either adherents of the London Missionary Society, or Roman Catholics.

The Ellice and Gilbert Groups consist of a series of coral atolls lying between 5° N. latitude and 10° S. latitude, and 170° to 180° E. longitude. The principal export is copra. The natives are of Malay-Polynesian race, and number about 20,000; and are most of them adherents of American missions, or of the London Missionary Society. The islands have separate kings or chiefs, who are assisted by councils of chiefs and commoners. Labourers go for periods of three years to Fiji and Tahiti, and have also been recruited for Mexico. These groups have now been placed under British protection.

The Southern Solomon Islands consist of the islands of New Georgia, Guadalcanar, Malaya, San Cristoval, and smaller islands in the vicinity of the above, lying between the 7th and 13th degrees of south latitude, and the 150th and 163rd degrees of east longitude. The natives are Melanesians. Stations have been established by the Melanesian Mission, but the converts are not numerous. The natives are treacherous, and most of them are cannibals. There are a few resident traders, mostly of British nationality. A large number of natives used to go to work on plantations in Queensland, Fiji, and Samoa, returning after the expiration of three years; but the number is less than formerly. The principal articles of trade are copra, pearl shell, and tortoiseshell. The climate is not a good one. These islands have now been placed under British protection.

The Santa Cruz Islands are situated between
the Solomon Islands and the New Hebrides Group. The natives are Melanesians, and are mostly adherents of the Melanesian Mission. The principal trade is in copra.

The New Hebrides Group lies between the 12th and 20th degrees of south latitude, and the 165th and 170th degrees of east longitude. The natives are Melanesians, but in many places there is an admixture of Polynesian blood. The population has been estimated at from 100,000 to 140,000, but the Mission returns place it at only 50,000. Missions have been established by the Melanesian Missionary Society, by the Presbyterian churches of Australia, and by the Roman Catholic Church. The larger number of the natives are still cannibals. Life is, however, safer than in the Solomon Islands. Native labourers go to Queensland, Fiji, Samoa, and New Caledonia; but in much smaller numbers than formerly. There is a European population of about 180, mostly British or French. French and Australian companies have been formed for trading and planting purposes. A British steamer, connecting with steamers from Sydney, runs regularly in the group, and occasionally a French steamer runs from New Caledonia. The principal export is copra; but bananas, coffee, timber, and sulphur are also exported. The climate of most of the islands is bad, and malarial fever is prevalent. A joint commission, consisting of British and French naval officers, has been appointed to protect the lives and property of British and French subjects, and to maintain order.

COOK OR HERVEY ISLANDS PROTECTORATE.

The Cook Islands are about 1,700 miles from Auckland by steamer. The most southerly, Mangai, is in latitude 21° 47' south, and the most northerly, Aitutaki, in 18° 15' south. Rarotonga, the most westerly, is in 160° west, and Mauke, the furthest to the east, lies in 157° west longitude. The group consists of seven islands—Mangai, Atiu, Mauke, Mitiaro, the Hervey Islands proper, Aitutaki, and Rarotonga. The so-called Hervey Islands are an atoll, with the usual low islets on the surrounding reef, and are frequented by the natives from Aitutaki to make copra from the coconuts, which grow luxuriantly and without care in such positions.

Rarotonga is the most important, being the only island in the group with harbours. There are three small harbours in the coral reef with which this island is fringed. The best of these, Avatiu, is the centre of trade for the group. There is also good anchorage outside the reef. Rarotonga is very beautiful and fertile, having a volcanic surface soil with coral subsoil. The island is small—about 25 miles in circuit—but the central hills rise to a height of nearly 3,000 feet. Water is consequently good and abundant. The climate is good and unusually cool. The native population is over 2,000. The foreign residents number some 50 adult males, engaged in trade or planting. They are chiefly British, with a mixture of Americans, Germans, French, and Chinese. There is a resident European missionary, and a native school in which teachers are trained for mission service in other islands in connection with the London Missionary Society. Several of these teachers have for some time past been doing good service in other Pacific Islands, and in New Guinea.

Mangaia is of about the same size as Rarotonga, but chiefly a coral formation, and less fertile. The climate is equally good, but the hills do not reach 500 feet in height. The population is about 2,000, with only 4 Europeans who are engaged in trade. There is a resident English missionary and native school.

Aitutaki is smaller than Mangaia, but of the same character. It is surrounded by an ocean coral reef as well as a shore reef. The ocean reef is said to be 60 miles in circuit, and the lagoon thus formed off one end of the island is a large sheet of water capable, by a moderate outlay, of being made suitable for large vessels. Population: native, 1,500, with only one European trader. There is also a resident English missionary and native school.

Atiu, Mauke, and Mitiaro are all under the king of Atiu. Atiu resembles Aitutaki, but Mauke and Mitiaro are smaller. The joint populations are about 1,800. There are only two foreign residents, and the missionaries in charge are native teachers from Rarotonga.

Communication within each island is entirely by roads or tracks. They have no river nor coastal traffic. Between the islands communication is entirely by sailing vessel; very uncertain and irregular. From Tahiti come regular trading vessels, and also from San Francisco. The only steam communication is by the "Richmond" on her round trip from Auckland to Tonga, Samoa, and Tahiti, calling at Rarotonga once in five weeks, on her return from Tahiti to Auckland.

Productions.—Cotton, coffee, tobacco, copra, arrowroot, fungus, oranges, limes, bananas, and all tropical fruits flourish luxuriously. Orange and lime trees produce abundantly, and of excellent quality, and all kinds of native food—taro, breadfruit, kumeras, yams, bananas, and the indigenous plaintain, are fine and plentiful. Many products of a temperate clime do well, and cattle, except sheep, thrive well on an indigenous species of canch or wire grass.

Administration.

The Cook Islands were declared to be under British protection in October, 1888, by Captain Bourke, of H.M.S. "Hyacinth," and the Hervey Islands, Manuai, Anoter and Takutia by Commander Nicolls, of H.M.S. "Cormorant," in June, 1889.

The Resident is paid by the Government of New Zealand, and reports direct to the Governor of that Colony. Since his appointment he has succeeded in arranging for the election of a general Legislature to make laws for the group. The Government is carried on by the Ariki or Queens, who are also the principal landowners. The chief of these, Queen Makea, whose hus-band is Ariki or king of Atiu, has been acknowledged as head of the Government, and an Executive Council, of which the Ariki is ex officio members, has been appointed. A Supreme Court has been established, and a law has been passed regulating the sale of intoxicants and imposing a general ad valorem duty of 5 per cent. on imports. The laws are subject to the approval of the Resident.

Trade.

The principal exports are cotton, 14,638 lbs., value $29,276; coffee, 138,934 lbs., value $22,229; copra, 1,058,547 lbs., value $23,348; and oranges, value $15,000. The total exports in 1889 were $103,976, and in 1890, 101,869. The imports in the same years were $152,342 and $150,843.

British Resident, F. J. Moss.
High Commissioners.

1877 Sir Arthur Gordon, G.C.M.G.
1878 John Gorrie (acting).
1879 Sir A. Gordon, G.C.M.G.
1882 Sir G. W. Des Voeux, K.C.M.G. (Acting High Com.).
1883 J. B. Thurston, C.M.G. (Asst. High Com.).
1884 Sir G. W. Des Voeux (acting).
1885 W. Macgregor, C.M.G. (Act. Asst. High C.).
1887 Sir C. B. H. Mitchell, K.C.M.G.
1888 Sir J. B. Thurston, K.C.M.G.

Establishment.

High Commissioner, Sir J. B. Thurston, K.C.M.G.
Chief Judicial Commissioner, H. S. Berkeley, 300l. (in addition to salary as Chief Justice of Fiji).
Registrar, J. Langford, 50l. (in addition to Fiji salary).
Secretary to High Commission and Clerk in Charge of Accounts, W. Collet, 400l.
Deputy Commissioner in Tonga, R. B. Leefe, 440l. and quarters.
Diputy Commissioner in Samoa, and for the Union Group, T. B. Cusack Smith, 100l., and 700l. as Consul.

OTHER MISCELLANEOUS POSSESSIONS.

