ZULULAND.

Situation and Area.

Zululand is the territory lying to the north of Natal, from which it is divided by the River Tugela. It is bounded on the east by the Indian Ocean, on the north and north-west by that portion of the South African Republic (Vrijheid District) formerly known as the "New Republic," and on the north by Tongaland. It comprises the territory formerly known as the Zulu Reserve, with about two-thirds of the territory restored to Cetywayo and Usibebu in 1883, and was formally declared British territory in May, 1887. (The estimated area is roughly about 12,000 square miles.)

History.

The Zulus are a warlike tribe of Kaffirs who in the beginning of the century under Chaka pressed southwards and became consolidated into a powerful and well organised kingdom. Chaka was murdered and succeeded by Dingaan in 1828, who came into conflict with the emigrant Dutch, by whom he was deposed in 1839, in favour of his brother Panda. In the latter years of Panda Zululand was distracted by the rival ambitions of his sons, and the Natal Government in 1861 sent Mr. (now Sir) Theophilus Shepstone, Secretary for Native Affairs, on a mission to Zululand, to induce the Zulus to recognise some one of Panda's sons as heir to his throne, and thus restore tranquillity to the country. The son chosen, with the consent of the nation, the king, and the Natal Government, was Cetywayo, who from that time acted to a great extent as regent for his father until the latter died in 1873. Cetywayo, at the instance of Mr. Shepstone, proclaimed certain new laws, which in effect came to this, that he was not to kill his subjects without adequate cause and without trial. The relations between Cetywayo and Natal during the first years of his reign were not unfriendly, though they became occasionally strained through disregard by him of his coronation law. But after the annexation by England of the Transvaal, a material change in the relations of the two powers took place. Cetywayo had long hated the Boers, with whom he had a boundary dispute, dating from 1861, and after the annexation his enmity appeared to be transferred to the new Government. The Zulu war party wanted at once to occupy the whole territory in dispute, and a collision between the Zulus and the British Government of the Transvaal appeared imminent, but was averted by the suggestion of Sir Henry Bulwer, Lieutenant Governor of Natal, to refer the dispute to the arbitration of three Commissioners to be selected by himself. This was accepted, both by Sir T. Shepstone, as Governor of the Transvaal, and by Cetywayo, and approved by Her Majesty's Government; the final award being however by them reserved to Sir B. Frere as Her Majesty's High Commissioner in South Africa. The Natal Commission reported in June, 1878, in favour of the claims of the Zulu king, and in September Sir B. Frere arrived in Natal and took up the consideration of the boundary dispute, and also of our general relations with the Zulus, which were becoming more and more strained. On the 11th of December his award in the arbitration was delivered to the representatives of the Zulu nation at the lower Tugela Drift. At the same time Cetywayo was required to introduce some modification of his administration, especially as regards military service, and to surrender certain refugees from Natal, and pay a fine for harbouring them, and for border outrages by his subjects.

The king not having complied, the further enforcement of the demands was confided to Lieut.-General Lord Chelmsford, whose forces advanced into Zululand in three columns between the 11th and 14th of January, 1879. On the 22nd of January two engagements were fought; one at Isandhlwana, the other at Inyezane; the former with disastrous, the latter with doubtful results to the British. On the same night part of Zulu impi crossed the Buffalo and attacked the commissariat and hospital post of Rorke's Drift, held by one company of the 24th Regiment. The post was without defences; but the officer in com-
mand, Lieut. Chard, R.E., V.C., with great rapidity and skill converted the stores themselves into a defence, and throughout the whole night, the little garrison, behind a flimsy rampart of rice bags and biscuit boxes, successfully maintained an heroic defence.

In the meantime, the northern column, under Colonel (now Sir Evelyn) Wood, continued to engage and harass the enemy. Even in this part British arms were not free from disaster at the Intombi River, and in a reconnaissance at the Hlobane Mountain; but immediately after the whole Zulu army, numbering 24,000 men, having attacked Wood's camp at Kambula Kop, suffered a severe defeat.

At the beginning of April reinforcements having begun to arrive from England and the neighbouring colonies, Lord Chelmsford advanced across the Lower Tugela to the relief of Colonel Pearson, who was shut up in Eshowe; defeated the enemy at Ginginhlovo on the 2nd of April, and relieved the garrison.

The military power of the Zulu kingdom was finally broken to pieces at the battle of Ulundi on the 4th of July, and Cetwayo fled to the bush with a few followers. The people accepted their defeat with singular calmness, at once returning to their usual avocations. Chief after chief submitted, and Cetwayo himself was captured. The dynasty of Chaka was deposed, and the country was divided into thirteen districts, each under an independent Chief, holding office by the gift of the Queen of England, subject to certain conditions accepted by him; a British resident was appointed to reside in Zululand, and be the adviser of the chiefs and channel of communication between them and the British Government.

Difficulties were soon experienced in working this arrangement. Some of the chiefs quarrelled and fought with one another and with their subjects, many of whom refused to recognise their authority; while a large and influential party were anxious for the restoration of Cetwayo. Sir H. Bulwer, who had assumed the government of Natal in the early part of 1882, was specially commissioned to inquire into the whole question of the Zulu settlement. After fully considering his report, Her Majesty's Government decided to replace the ex-king over the whole country north of the Umhlatusi River, with the exception of a small territory in the north-east, which Usibepu, one of the thirteen chiefs appointed by Sir Garnet Wolseley, was allowed to retain. The territory between the Umhlatusi and the Natal frontier was constituted a native reserve, under the supervision of a British commissioner, and it was arranged that locations should be provided in this reserve for any of the Zulus who might be unwilling to again submit to the restored king. Cetwayo, who had at his own request been allowed to visit England, where the decision of the Government was communicated to him, and by him formally accepted, was re-installed by Sir Theophilus Shepstone on the 29th January, 1883, in the presence of 5,000 Zulus.

His enemies, headed by Usibepu, proved more formidable than he or others had anticipated, and after a struggle of some months he was overthrown and his kraal destroyed. He took refuge in the Reserve, where he lived practically under the care of the Resident, until the 8th of February, 1884, when he died. Soon after his death his followers, the Usutus, finding themselves no match for Usibepu, called in some Boer adventurers, with whose assistance they inflicted a crushing defeat on Usibepu, who took refuge in the Reserve. As a reward for this service the Boers received a grant of land, in which they established the "New Republic."

Finding that the Zulu people were unable to form any orderly administration of the remaining territory, Her Majesty's Government decided, with the general assent of the Zulus, to declare their country to be British territory, which was done in May, 1887. Some disturbances occurred soon after in connection with an attempt to set up Dinuzulu, a son of Cetwayo, as king; but it was soon checked, and Dinuzulu and some of his indunas were removed to St. Helena, while others were imprisoned or fined.

On the 18th Dec., 1884, the British flag had been hoisted at St. Lucia Bay, which was ceded to the English Government by Panda in 1843. A proclamation of December, 1888, made it clear that Sodwana Point and Bay were included in Zululand. A further notification (in February, 1890), declared the districts of Fokoti, Umjindi, and Manaba, to form part of Zululand.

Law and Constitution.

The "Zulu Native Reserve" was administered from 1883 to May, 1887, by a resident commissioner, immediately responsible to H.M.'s special commissioner for Zulu affairs; and order was maintained by a force of mounted native police. This organisation was subsequently extended over the whole territory.

The Territory is at present administered through a Resident Commissioner residing at Eshowe, under the direct supervision of the Governor of Natal, who is also Governor of Zululand, and who exercises the power of legislating by proclamation. Zululand is divided into 8 magisterial districts, viz., Eshowe, Nkandhlu, Nqutu, Entonjaneni, Lower Unfolosi, Ndwandwe, Ubombo and Illabisa. Native law remains in force as between natives, and the tribal authority of the chiefs is not interfered with. Natal law has been proclaimed as having force, as far as applicable, in Zululand, except in certain circumstances for which special laws and regulations are provided. The occupation of land by Europeans is not allowed, except for missionary, trading, or mining purposes. A hut tax of fourteen shillings per annum is levied throughout Zululand.

A township at Eshowe has been surveyed, and 400 building lots of one acre each have been laid off. Another township, Melmoth, has been surveyed and laid off on private property in Entonjaneni district.

Trade and Industry.

The pursuits of the Zulus are mainly agricultural, crops of maize (mealie), and other cereals being raised round their kraals. Their individual wealth consists in cattle, of which they possess considerable numbers. They avoid the sea, and have no fishing. Trade is carried on by a few trading settlers, and by traders' wagons from Natal, which traverse the country periodically. Oxen and maize are exchanged for cotton goods and hardware. Gold was discovered in December, 1886, at Mongosi, near the River Tugela, and other discoveries have been made, but the diggings have not proved very remunerative. The territory is rich in minerals, such as coal, iron, copper, lead, &c.

No customs or transit dues are at present imposed upon goods entering Zululand from Natal. The importation of spirituous liquors is
prohibited, except under special permit, and the supply of spirits to natives, whether by sale or otherwise, is strictly forbidden.

By special arrangement between the Natal Government and the administration of Zululand, the latter territory is treated as a part of the Colony of Natal, for the purposes of the Natal Transit Dues Law (1886), under which certain articles pass through the Colony in bond for export beyond the borders on payment of a nominal transit duty. The customs tariff on goods entering otherwise than from Natal is the same as that of Natal. An annual contribution of £1,800 is made by the Natal Government in respect of the customs duties collected on goods entering Zululand. Good wagon roads have been constructed to the magistracies in the different districts.

Main roads from Natal cross the border at Rorke's Drift, and at the lower drifts of the Tugela river; and from Zululand they cross into the South African Republic at the following points:—Nkandi, Isipezi, Etonjaneni and Idhlebi Hills, and near the source of the Mkusana river. A new road from Eshowe to Tugela is under construction.

Currency and Banking.

The currency is exclusively British sterling. There is as yet no Government savings bank or other bank.

Means of Communication.

The absence of any good landing place prevents communication by sea. St. Lucia Bay, Sordwana Bay, and Port Durnford are nothing but exposed and surf-bound beaches, affording no harbour. Eshowe is in communication with Natal by telegraph (telegraph 30 miles; receipts, revenue, 1892, 9½l.; expenditure, 11½l.; expenditure, 4½l.), and by daily post carried by native runners. The parcels post is in operation to Eshowe. Post offices exist in the different districts, all in connection with Eshowe, the mails being conveyed regularly by native mail carriers. In the territory, and to Natal (Zululand, with Natal, joined the Universal Postal Union in 1892), postage rates are 1d. per half ounce. To the Cape, Free State, and Transvaal, 2½d. per half ounce; to the United Kingdom, 2½d. The postage received on ocean carried mail matter is paid over to the Natal Government, by whom the mail steamers are subsidized.

Education.

Education is at present left to the various missionary stations, there being four different societies represented. The total number of children on school rolls is about 700.

Population, estimated in 1892 about 160,000.

Finances (Zulu Reserve until 1887).

| Year | Revenue | Expenditure |
|------|---------|-------------|
| 1883 | 588     | 5,240       |
| 1884 | 8,388   | 6,590       |
| 1885 | 11,234  | 7,816       |
| 1886 | 12,225  | 10,071      |
| 1887 | 14,149  | 15,784      |
| 1888*| 32,873  | 34,094      |
| 1889 | 38,059  | 33,766      |
| 1890 | 41,674  | 29,732      |
| 1891 | 40,080  | 36,118      |
| 1892 | 42,432  | 33,958      |

* Annexation of Zululand.

Civil Establishment.

Governor's Department.

Governor, The Hon. Sir Walter Hely-Hutchinson, K.C.M.G., 1,000l.
Secretary for Zululand, William Windham, 300l. to 400l.
Clerk, H. M. Taberer, 100l. to 150l.

Resident Commissioner.

Resident Commissioner and Chief Magistrate, Sir Marshall Clarke, K.C.M.G., 1,800l. and travelling allowance, 200l.
Secretary, J. Windham, 200l. to 300l.
1st Clerk and Interpreter, J. Stuart, 150l. to 200l.
2nd ditto, W. E. Peachey, 100l. to 150l.
Storekeeper (acting), H. H. Maybery, 20l.
Receiver and Accountant, Major H. Gardner, 300l. to 400l.
Clerk, V. G. Robinson, 120l. to 150l.
Legal Adviser, Crown Prosecutor, Registrar of Deeds, and Registrar-General, H. C. Koch, 400l.
Sheriff, J. B. Faye, 36l.
Auditor, W. E. Goldby, 350l.

Resident Magistrates.

Nqutu District, R. H. Addison, 450l.
Clerk and Interpreter, C. H. Gilson, 150l. to 250l.
European Constable, F. G. Elliot, 84l.
Nkandhlala District, J. L. Knight, 450l.
Clerk and Interpreter, J. B. Carbutt (acting), 150l. to 250l.
Constable and Messenger, R. Horsley, 84l.
Etonjaneni District, R. J. Shepstone, 450l.
Clerk and Interpreter, B. Colenbrander, 100l. to 150l.
Constable and Messenger, H. Johnston, 84l.
District Surgeon, J. Petrie, 200l.
Ndawande District, J. Y. Gibson, 450l.
Clerk and Interpreter, H. McL. Brown, 100l. to 150l.
Lower Umfolosi District, T. Maxwell, 450l.
Clerk and Interpreter, C. A. Wheelwright, 100l. to 150l.
Umboma District, A. Hulley, 450l.
Clerk and Interpreter, F. A. Fynney, 150l. to 250l.
Hlabisa District, A. Boast, 450l.
Clerk and Interpreter, A. R. Turnbull, 150l. to 250l.
Eshowe District, C. R. Saunders, 450l.
1st Clerk and Interpreter, W. W. Barker, 150l. to 250l.
2nd Clerk, C. T. Stuart, 120l. to 150l.
Constable and Messenger, J. B. Faye, 84l.
Gauker, E. M. Daw, 84l.
European Turnkey, F. Donman, 50l.
District Surgeon, J. H. Balfe, 200l.

Zululand Police.

Commandant, G. Mansel, C.M.G., 600l.
Sub-Inspectors, C. E. Pierce, J. B. Marshall, C. F. Hignett, and C. C. Foxon, 250l. to 300l. each.
Clerk of Works and Superintendent of Roads, W. Bosman, 500l.

Postmasters.

Eshonce, E. M. Daw, 24l.
Nondweni, F. M. McLeod.
Nkandhlala, J. L. Jenkinson (acting).
Etonjaneni, Mrs. Eastwood, 12l.
Inyoni, J. Stokkeland, 12l.
Rorke's Drift, C. H. Gilson (acting), 12l.
APPENDIX TO PART II.

This Appendix gives some account of certain British Possessions and Protectorates which are not governed as Colonies, but are controlled by High Commissioners or Chartered Companies, or are otherwise in a position of dependency to the British Empire.

IMPERIAL BRITISH EAST AFRICA COMPANY, AND ZANZIBAR.

On the 3rd of September, 1888, a charter was issued incorporating this Company for the "entire management of those parts of the islands and mainland of the Zanzibar dominions on the East Coast of Africa appertaining to the territory lying between Wanga and Kipini, both inclusive, which are recognised in the Anglo-German Treaty of 1886 as reserved for the exclusive exercise of British influence, together with any further rights of a similar nature in East Africa or elsewhere which the Company may hereafter acquire." The Company thus formed has for its president Sir William Mackinnon, to whom the concession was originally granted on the 24th of May, 1887, by the Sultan of Zanzibar. The concession is a strip of coast 150 miles in length, including the important harbours of Mombassa and Kilifi, the former probably the finest harbour on the East Coast of Africa, and stretching inward to the ten-mile limit to which the Zanzibar dominion on the mainland was confined by the Anglo-German agreement referred to. The Company, however, have full powers for acquiring territory to the west of this limit as far as the zone of British influence extends, from the coast to the confines of the Congo Free State. Including the sphere of influence, the area to which the operations of the Company potentially extend is estimated at 750,000 sq. miles. The whole of the remaining territory of the Sultan of Zanzibar was, by an arrangement concluded in 1890, placed under British protection, and that part of it north of Kipini was conceded to the Company 31st August, 1889, and 4th March, 1890.

The directors of the Company are Sir A. B. Kemball, K.C.S.I., President, the Marquis of Lorne, Vice-President, and Gen. Sir Donald M. Stewart, Bart., G.C.B., Sir Thomas Fowell Buxton, Bart., Sir John Kirk, G.C.M.G., W. Burdett-Coutts, M.P., Alexander Low Bruce, George Sutherland Mackenzie, Robert Lyrie, W. P. Alexander, and J. M. Hall.

The capital of the Company is 2,000,000l., of which 1,000,000l. has been offered for public subscription.

Zanzibar.

The kingdom of Zanzibar was formerly a dependency of Muscat, and became independent in 1861. The island itself, situated in 6° N. lat., is the largest coraline island on the African coast, being 47 miles long by 20 broad, and contains an area of 640 square miles. The port of the island is one of the best of Africa, and it has long been the centre of all commerce with the mainland, now included in the British and German spheres of influence. It has an excellent water supply, and some fine buildings. The climate is better than that of the mainland, the thermometer ranging from 77° to 90° with a mean of 80°, and an annual rainfall of 60 inches. The hot season is from January to March.

The island is fertile, producing cloves, chulteers, copra, and other tropical products, but its exports gathered from the mainland include wax, hides, rubber, ebony, orchilla weed, copal and tortoise-shell. Its imports are calico and Manchester goods, hardware, cereals, and iron and brass wire for the interior trade. The population is about 250,000, of very mixed blood, with the exception of a small upper class of pure Arabs.

Six miles to the north of Zanzibar lies the small and densely wooded, but waterless Island of Tumbatu, and some 30 miles further north lies the Island of Pemba, with an area of 380 miles. It is very fertile, producing cloves to the value of 120,000l. a year.

General Description.

The general character of the East African coast is deadly, but beyond the central half of the British line, from a little south of Mombassa to Malindi, the climate is reported to be much better. The atmosphere is reported to be dry and comparatively healthy. The sandstone undersoil is unfavourable to rank vegetation, but the rainfall appears not to be abundant, as ebony, teak, thorn, and other hard woods abound, and vast quantities of lupatic and fibre aloe flourish, but the ground is said to be covered with a short sweet pasturage. Recent official reports describe the coastal belt as possessing a high degree of fertility, but at present much neglected on account of the want of free labour and intelligent methods of cultivation. Before the region in the interior was depopulated by the Masai, it appears to have been filled with a pastoral population, and in the dense forest patches are still found with plantations of Indian corn, beans, and lentils, and flocks of oxen, sheep, and goats. There will be for some time great difficulty in developing the country owing to the want of labour. The warlike and thieving propensities of the Masai are being kept in check without much trouble. Indian traders from Zanzibar and the German East African Protectorate are already settling in the Company's territory.

The Anglo-german Agreement of 1890 defined the respective spheres of influence, so as to assign to Great Britain all the territory between the present southern line of delimitation, along the parallel of 19° S. lat. from the Congo State to the East Coast of the Victoria Nyanza, and thence to the mouth of the River Umba, including Mfumbiro mountain, but excluding Kilimanjaro, to the northern limit of the parallel of 6° N. lat., and the River Juba from its intersection with that parallel. Westward the British sphere extends to the Congo Free State, and to the north of that it is undefined, but
BRUNEI—CYPRUS.

includes the western watershed of the Nile. The coastline now under control of the Company reaches from Wanga to Kismayu, a distance of about 400 miles.

The inland regions have been explored as far as Uganda, which has now been for some time under the administration of the Company. The very important country of Usoga, north of Victoria Nyanza, has been acquired. Two steamers maintain inter-coastal trade and mail communications; a stern-wheel steamer has been reconstructed at Mombassa for the navigation of the Tana river, and has succeeded in navigating that river to a point 300 miles from its mouth, and another steamer is built for launching on Victoria Nyanza. The stern-wheel steamer has also navigated the Juba to Bardera, a distance of about 400 miles. Mombassa and Malindi are now connected by telegraph, which has been extended to Witu and Lamu, via the Tana river at Gollanti, and Mombassa is in telegraphic communication with India and Europe. A railway from the coast has been commenced, and a trade route cleared for 300 miles into the interior along the Sabaki river, protected at frequent intervals by stockaded stations.

The receipts from the customs during the first year of the Company's administration increased 50 per cent., and for the second year the increase has been 70 per cent. A further increase of 25 per cent. took place in 1892.

The Company issues its own coinage, which is now in extensive circulation along the coast, and is being introduced with promising results in the interior. It has also its own post office on postal union principles, and its special postage and revenue stamps.

A police force of 400 Soudanese and British Indians has been raised.

A few miles of light railway on the island of Mombassa have been constructed. Camels have been introduced, but they do not thrive; donkeys, mules, and ponies do well.

The ports of Mombassa and Kilifi have been surveyed, and piers are being built at both places.

London Office, 2, Pall Mall East, S.W.; Acting Secretary, Mr. E. L. Bentley.

Chief Local Officers.

Acting Administrator, J. R. W. Pigott.

