Colony: Gold Coast
Year: 1923
Section: Trade and Industries.
Type: narrative
---

The first in value of the imports in 1921 was Railway plant and rolling stock, but there is a steady demand for cotton goods, provisions, hardware, machinery, oils, motor spirits, flour, illuminating oils, building materials, cement and lime, soap, spirits and malt liquors. The use of motor transport is rapidly extending in the colony and (1920) showed a large import of motor cars and lorries; in 1921 the number imported was 204.

Native manufactures are insignificant. Cloths are woven in many parts of the country, for the most part of English spun yarn, but in the northern districts occasionally of thread manufactured from the indigenous cotton plant. Narrow strips of four to six inches are woven on a rough hand loom, and stitched together to make
ASHANTI.

Ashanti is inhabited by a large number of confederated tribes, the principal of which are the Bekwaias, Adansis, Kokofus, Nkwantsees, Coomassies, Agunas, Mampons, Nautas, Kumawus, Bompatas, Juaibins and Jisus. Each tribe has its own Head Chief, but from time immemorial the King of Coomassie was recognised as the King paramount of the Confederation.

In 1873 the King of Ashanti invaded the British Protectorate with a large army, and reached Elmina, where he was entirely defeated by the British forces under Colonel (afterwards Sir) Francis Festing. Later in the year Captain (afterwards Sir) John Glover was sent to the eastern districts of the Protectorate to organise the tribes in that quarter, for a flank movement against the Ashanti territory. At the same time Sir Garnet, (afterwards Viscount) Wolseley was despatched to the Gold Coast, with British and West Indian troops, native levies, and some seamen and marines, to operate against the Ashantis, starting from Cape Coast. On the 31st of January, 1874, he came into general engagement with the enemy at Amoafu, where, after desperate resistance, he drove them from their position. The next four days were employed continuously in fighting, until, on the evening of the 4th of February, the British force entered Coomassie. The King had fled to the bush. A few days later Sir John Glover also reached Coomassie. On the 13th, messengers sent by the King concluded a peace with Sir Garnet Wolseley at Fommanah, which was afterwards signed with a pencil cross by King Kofi. By the Treaty of Fommanah, the King of Ashanti renounced all claims on the Protectorate, promised to protect traders, to abandon human sacrifices, and to pay an indemnity of 50,000 ozs. of gold.

In 1894 Prempeh, who was then King of Coomassie, and had successfully fought against the Nkoranzas, who had revolted against his rule, threatened to attack the Atabubus. This attack was averted by the despatch of a force under Sir Francis Scott, and an ultimatum was then sent to Prempeh warning him not to enter British territory, and suggesting that he should acquiesce in the establishment of a Residency at Coomassie. No definite reply to this suggestion could be obtained, and a military expedition accordingly proceeded to Coomassie, to compel compliance with the demands of Her Majesty's Government. The expedition, under the command of Sir Francis Scott, entered Coomassie without resistance, January, 1896. Prempeh made submission, but, failing to comply with the terms dictated, was brought to the coast as a political prisoner and lodged in Elmina Castle. A Resident was at the same time installed at Coomassie, and thus commenced an entirely new departure in the relations of the Gold Coast Colony with Ashanti.

In 1900 the Governor visited Coomassie, and was there besieged by the Ashantis, the town being closely invested. Provisions ran short, and a part of the garrison, with the Governor, cut their way out; the rest were relieved by Colonel (afterward Sir J.) Willcocks, commanding the Ashanti Field Force, on 15th July, after severe fighting. The Ashantis were subsequently thoroughly routed at Obassia.

An Order of the King in Council, dated September 26th, 1901, defined the boundaries of Ashanti, annexed it to His Majesty's Dominions, and provided for its administration under the Governor of the Gold Coast. Ashanti is under a Chief Commissioner, with Commissioners of Provinces and Districts under him. By a subsequent Order in Council of the 22nd of October, 1906, the boundaries between the Colony and Ashanti, and between Ashanti and the Northern Territories, were re-adjusted and defined, with due regard to tribal lands and natural features.

Ashanti is now divided into two provinces, the Eastern with headquarters at Coomassie and the Western with headquarters at Sunyani. Each of these is subdivided into districts under a District-Commissioner who exercises limited jurisdiction.

In 1919 a Circuit Judge was appointed for Ashanti. This officer relieves the Chief Commissioner of practically all judicial work except civil cases and matters in which native customary law is applicable.

THE NORTHERN TERRITORIES.

In 1897 the territories to the north of Ashanti were constituted a separate district with the title of "The Northern Territories," and placed in charge of a Commissioner, and a grant-in-aid of the expenditure in the Northern Territories was voted by Parliament.

Major H. P. Northcott was appointed Commissioner and Commandant of these territories, with the rank of Lieutenant-Colonel. The negotiations between the British and French Governments for the settlement of territorial questions in West Africa, which had been suspended in 1896, were resumed in October, 1897; and on 14th June, 1898, after a period of considerable tension in consequence of the proximity of the British and French forces in the disputed territories, a Convention was signed at Paris with a proviso that it should be ratified within six (subsequently extended to twelve) months. By this Convention the boundary between the Gold Coast and the French Colony of the Ivory Coast, which had only been settled in 1889, as far as the 9th parallel of north latitude, was continued northwards along the course of the Black Volta River to the 11th parallel, and it was then drawn along the 11th parallel with a deflection to the north in the neighbourhood of Mamprusi, until it met the Franco-German boundary of 1897. The effect of the Anglo-French Convention of 14th June, 1898, was to leave Bona, Lobi, and Moshi to France, while Dagati, Wa, Mamprusi, and the southern portion of Gurunshi were included in the British sphere.

On 14th November, 1899, an agreement was concluded with Germany for the partition of the "neutral zone." This partition assigned Salaga to Great Britain, and Yendi to Germany, and to the north of the zone gave Mamprusi to the former and Chakosi to the latter.
and Great Britain respectively defined the northern frontiers of Togoland.

* For text of the British mandate, see Cmd. 176.
stalled at Coomassie, and thus com-
pletely new departure in the relations
Coast Colony with Ashanti.

to Great Britain, and Yendi to Germany, and
to the north of the zone gave Mamprusi to the
former and Chakoni to the latter.
Survey operations were undertaken by Anglo-French and Anglo-German Commissions during 1901-2, for the delimitation of those portions of the boundaries which had not yet been settled.
