Colony: Gold Coast
Year: 1880
Section: Domestic Slavery.
Type: narrative
---
**Domestic Slavery.**

At its first meeting, the Legislative Council, exercising the powers in relation to the Protectorate conferred by Her Majesty's Order in Council of the 6th of August, 1874, passed two ordinances disposing of the question of slavery.

Domestic slavery has existed from time immemorial on the Gold Coast, as in other parts of Africa. The slave population consisted partly of native-born slaves, and partly of Donkos, slaves purchased from Ashanti importers. Slavery was an emanation of parental authority, every man being saleable either by his father or mother, according to the character of the union subsisting between his parents, and the consequent status of the mother. In addition to slavery emanating from parental authority, there was a species of slavery called pawning, founded on contract, which arose when a debtor gave to his creditor, as a security, either himself, or a child or slave, to be a temporary slave in the hands of the creditor until debt and interest were paid.

Within the British possessions on the Gold Coast, slavery is abolished by force of the statute § 4 Will. iv., c. 73, but the British territory on the Gold Coast is of very narrow local range, and slavery within the Protectorate was not affected by that statute. Nor was any attempt made on the part of the British Government to uphold it. "If the laws or usages of those countries," observed Lord John Russell (desp. 14 July, 1841) "tolerate slavery, we have no right to set aside those laws or usages except by persuasion, negotiation, and other peaceful means." But even at that time the harsher usages of slavery were appreciably mitigated by the action of the court of the "judicial assessor to the Native Chiefs" and other magistrates. At the conclusion of the war the question was seriously taken in hand, and settled by the two ordinances in question. One prohibits, under penalties, the introduction of slaves into the Protectorate, and the buying and selling, and pawning of slaves and other persons within the Protectorate; and the second declares, that henceforth no court, native or British, shall take notice of, so as to give effect to the relations between master and slave, except in so far as those relations may be in accordance with the law of England relating to master and servant.
