Colony: Gold Coast
Year: 1923
Section: THE NORTHERN TERRITORIES.
Type: narrative
---

By proclamation dated the 30th September, 1914, civil courts were established under the presidency of political officers seconded from the Gold Coast, appeal lying from the district courts to that of a senior political officer. In the absence of a local criminal code, that of the Gold Coast was introduced as a basis of procedure.

In June, 1915, the office of senior political officer was merged in that of the senior military commander, without prejudice, however, to the civil nature of the court concerned.

Boundary adjustments with the French took place in 1920 in accordance with an agreement signed by Lord Milner and M. Simon on 10th July, 1919. Lome and the whole of the coast were given over to the French, and the British received additional territory in the interior. The area of the British sphere is 13,040 square miles.

In October, 1921, the Council of the League of Nations approved in principle the arrangements made between the British and French Governments for the division Togoland in accordance with the agreement of 10th July, 1919, and the application to the territories of the Mandate system; and on 20th July, 1922, after a delay due to negotiations between the United States Government and the Mandatory Powers, the Council confirmed the mandates and defined their terms.* The territory is divided into three districts with headquarters at Ho, Kete Kratchi and Yendi, administered by District Political Officers under the direction of the Governments of the Gold Coast Colony, and the Northern Territories respectively. Courts are still conducted as during the period of military occupation.

The road system of the Germans which was based on their railway system (now entirely confined within the limits of the French sphere) is not of direct commercial value. It is hoped to remedy this state of affairs by the construction of a main trade route from the river Volta near Kpong to Ho in Togoland, the western boundary of British Togoland being regarded as the Gold Coast frontier for the purpose of collection of Customs duties.

* For text of the British mandate, see Cmd. 1794.
Statistics of the Colony.

FINANCES.

*SHIPPING ENTERED AND CARRIED.

Year. Revenue. Expenditure. British Total Tonnage. Tonnage.