Colony: Gold Coast
Year: 1923
Section: Situation and Native Tribes.
Type: narrative
---
Situation and Native Tribes.

The Gold Coast Colony, with Ashanti, the Protected Northern Territories, and the British mandated territory of Togoland, is situated on the Gulf of Guinea, between 3° 7' W. long. and 1° 14' E. long., and is bounded on the west by the French colony of the Ivory Coast, on the east by the French mandated territory of Togoland, on the north by the French Soudan, and on the south by the sea.

The area of the Colony is 23,490 square miles, of Ashanti, 24,560, of the Northern Territories, 30,600, and of the British mandated territory of Togoland, 13,040.

The colony is inhabited by a large number of native tribes, whose customs and forms of government are of a more or less similar character. Each tribe has its own head chief and every town or village of the tribe a chief or headman.

The head chiefs and chiefs form the council of the tribe, and assist in dealing with matters affecting its general welfare. The succession to the chiefs' stools is for the most part hereditary by the female side, the heir to the stool being the son of the occupant's eldest sister, or failing male offspring by his sisters, his brothers according to seniority, and back from them to the male offspring of his aunts on the father's side.

The principal sea coast tribes are the following:—Apollonia, Ahanta, Chamah, Commendah, Elmina, Cape Coast or Fanti, Winnebah, Assin Gomoa, Ga, Adangme, Awuina, Agbosome and Aflao. Some of these, on account of tribal differences, are split up into divisions more or less independent of each other, and as education and civilisation spread, a tendency to further disintegration develops itself.

In the interior of the Colony the principal tribes are:—Aowin, upper and lower Wassaw, Sefwi, upper and lower Denkera, Tufel, Assen, Esikuma, Ajumako, Akim Abuakwa, and Akim Kotoku, Akwapim, eastern and western Krobo, Akwamu, Krepri, Shai and Ningo.

For the purposes of administration the Colony is divided into three provinces, each presided over by a Provincial Commissioner. These Provinces are further divided into districts, presided over by District Commissioners. Many of these Officers perform judicial duties as magistrates in addition being in administrative charge of their district. The districts are as follows:—

1. Western province:—Districts—Axim, Ankobra, Tarquah, Secondee-Dixcove, Sefwi and Aowin.
2. Central province:—Districts—Cape Coast, Saltpond, Winnebah, Western Akim.
3. Eastern province:—Districts—Acora, Birrim, Akwapim, Volta River, Addah-Quittah.

History.

It is said that as early as the reign of Edward I. (1272-1307) English navigators made voyages to the Gold Coast, and that a hundred years later French adventurers reached the coast, who, about 1364, built several lodges or forts, one being at Elmina, parts of which are supposed to have been subsequently incorporated in the present castle there. No definite evidence however exists to support these claims, although it is quite possible they are both correct; indeed, the natives until quite recently used to point out a hill near Takoradi as the site of a French fort built there many years ago. For our earliest knowledge of the Gold Coast we are indebted to the Portuguese navigators of the later years of the 14th and first part of the 16th centuries. They had been slowly extending their voyages down the West Coast of Africa, and it is recorded that in 1471 Juan de Santarem and Pedro d'Escoobar traded for gold in the neighbourhood of Elmina or Chama. They made the first European settlement eleven years later, when an expedition under Diego d'Azambuja built and garrisoned the fort San Jorge da Mina (Elmina), the materials for which he brought with him from Portugal. Several other settlements were founded, and the country was claimed for the King of Portugal by virtue of a Papal Bull granted in 1430, which gave to Portugal all the islands already discovered and all future discoveries in Guinea. This Bull was confirmed a few years after the foundation of Elmina by Pope Sextus IV. The Portuguese remained in undisputed possession for over fifty years until British merchant adventurers commenced trading on the coast, the earliest voyages of which records remain being those of Thomas Windham and Antonio Anes Pintado, in 1553, John Lok, in 1554, and William Townson, in 1555, 1556 and 1558. The British made no settlements at this time and their trade soon lapsed altogether until the early years of the 17th century. The Dutch, however, who made their first appearance on the coast in 1596, rapidly became serious rivals of the Portuguese and practically terminated their occupation by capturing Elmina in 1637, and Fort St. Anthony at Axim in 1642. After the activities of the Elizabethan sailors and merchant companies had come to an end, the English connection with the Gold Coast was revived by the efforts of a series of merchant companies, the first of which, called the "Company of Adventurers of London trading into Africa," was founded in 1618, but did not enjoy a successful career. Another company was formed in 1631, which established the first British fort on the coast at Kormantin, and lodges at several other places. This company was engaged in the slave trade, as were also the other European nations. Its charter was renewed in 1651, but in 1662 a new company was incorporated as the "Company of Royal Adventurers of England trading to Africa." Settlements were formed at Anamabu, Accra, and at Cabo Corso (Cape Coast), at which place the castle was built about this time by the English, although the Portuguese probably had a lodge there earlier. Three other European nations succeeded in acquiring territories on the Gold Coast, viz.:—The Swedes, the Brandenburgers, and the Danes. The first-mentioned built the fort of Christiansborg, near Accra about 1645, but were driven out by the Danes in 1657, and retired from the Coast. The Brandenburgers established "Fort Great Fredericksburg" at Princes River in 1682, and "Fort Dorothea" at Akwida in 1688, but their enterprise does not seem to have been prosecuted with much vigour, and was finally abandoned in 1720, their possessions falling into the hands of the Dutch. The Danes, however, after first selling the Fort at Christiansborg to the Portuguese, and re-buying it three years later, rapidly improved their position, building forts at several stations to the East of Accra, as far as Addah and Quittah, and exercising a kind of Protectorate over Akwapim, and the Volta River district.

The third English Company was not successful. The Dutch traders spared no efforts to get rid of their rivals, and in consequence of their aggression,
an expedition was sent by Charles II. in 1664, under the command of Captain Holmes, which recaptured Cape Coast, taken the previous year by the Dutch, and all the other Dutch forts, with the exception of Elmina and possibly Axim. In the following year, however, the Dutch Commander de Ruyter recaptured all the lost Dutch forts, with the exception of Cape Coast; and the treaty of Breda, 1667, left affairs in the Gold Coast in this condition. The fourth English Company was incorporated in the year 1672 under the name of the "Royal African Company of England." Under its influence English interests steadily advanced, and forts were established at Dixcove, Secondee, Commendah, Anamabu, Tantumquerry, Winnebah, Accra. The abolition of the exclusive privileges which the Royal African Company enjoyed, led to its decline and eventual dissolution in 1752. By the Acts of Parliament 23 George II., c. 31, and 25 George II., c. 40, a fifth trading Corporation, called the "African Company of Merchants" was formed, the membership of which was open to all British traders on payment of a fee of 40/-, compensation being paid for its charter and property to the Royal African Company. An annual subsidy was granted by Parliament to the newly-formed Company, until 1821, when by the Act 1 & 2 George IV., c. 28, the Company was dissolved and its possessions vested in the Crown, and placed under the Government of the West African Settlement, the seat of government being at Sierra Leone.
