Colony: Gold Coast
Year: 1923
Section: ASHANTI.
Type: narrative
---

Provision was made for the administration of the Northern Territories under the Gold Coast Government by an Order of the King in Council of 26th September, 1901, and by an Administrative Ordinance of January 1st, 1902, the Northern Territories were placed under a Chief Commissioner, and divided into the White Volta, Black Volta, Kintampo and Gonga Districts with headquarters at Gambaga, Wa, Kintampo and Salaga. By proclamation of 27th June, 1921, the country was re-divided as follows:

Northern Province, consisting of the districts of Northern Mamprussi, Southern Mamprussi, Lorha Tumua and Wa,

Southern Province, consisting of the districts of Eastern and Western Dagomba and Eastern and Western Gonja.

The Districts are presided over by Commissioners, who are responsible to the Chief Commissioner and have Courts of Justice, with appeal to the Chief Commissioner at Tamale.

By Order in Council, of the 22nd of October, 1906, the boundaries between the Northern Territories and Ashanti were re-adjusted and defined.

An important step was taken with regard to the Government of this Protectorate by replacing, with effect from the 1st of January, 1907, the former semi-military administration by a staff of Civil District and Assistant District Commissioners, and by establishing new stations. Simultaneously, the 2nd Battalion of the Gold Coast Regiment has been disbanded and a force of armed constabulary substituted therefor.

In 1920 the Circuit Judge, Ashanti, was appointed to exercise in the Northern Territories powers similar to those which he exercises in Ashanti.

TOGOLAND.

The former German colony of Togoland is situated on the Gulf of Guinea, bounded on the east by the Dahomey and on the west by the Gold Coast and its Protectorates. The actual coast-line lies between 1° 45' and 1° 14' W. longitude, the frontiers, however, especially on the west, opening out considerably. The total area is about 36,500 square miles.

Until 1884-85 the majority of the tribes along the littoral and its immediate hinterland, also those adjoining the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast regarded themselves as being under the suzerainty of Great Britain, but by agreements made with the French on the 24th December, 1885, and with the British on the 14th and 28th July, 1886, when provisional frontiers were fixed, German influence was formally recognized by those Powers. Subsequent agreements dated the 23rd July, 1897, and the 14th November, 1899, between Germany and the Governments of France and Great Britain respectively defined the northern frontiers of Togoland.

Immediately upon the outbreak of war between Great Britain and Germany Togoland was invaded by the Gold Coast forces. On the 6th August, 1914, Captain E. B. Barker entered the capital, Lome, under a flag of truce and on the following day that town and the hinterland for a distance of 120 kilometres from the sea were surrendered. On the 8th August Anecho (Petit Popo) was occupied by the French. Operations on a larger scale commenced on the 11th August when Temporary Lieutenant-Colonel F. C. Bryant landed at Lome. After engagements at Agbelufoe and Chra River on the 16th and 24th August respectively the enemy retired on the great wireless station at Kamina, which they destroyed. On the 26th August the acting-governor surrendered the Colony unconditionally.
