Colony: Gold Coast
Year: 1923
Section: Education.
Type: narrative
---
Gold has been exported from the Gold Coast more or less continuously since the discovery of the country by Europeans in the fifteenth century. Up to 1874, however, the industry was almost entirely in the hands of the natives. The first company for gold mining in West Africa was founded in 1874, but did little beyond exploration. A second company, formed in 1879, engaged in mining operations in the neighbourhood of Tarquah, and from that year the progress of mining enterprise is indicated by the rapid increase in the exports of gold bars, the result of European operations, as compared with those of gold dust, the produce of native mining. In 1899 there was a very remarkable development of the mining industry, which, though checked for a while by the disturbances in Ashanti, received a fresh impetus from the passing of the Concessions Ordinance in 1900, the progress of the railway, and general improvement in means of transport.

Gold is widely diffused throughout the Colony, Ashanti, and some parts of the Northern Territories, in quartz and alluvial deposits, while in Wassaw there is good conglomerate or banket formation which is now reported to extend to the Birrim District in the Eastern Province. The rivers are said to be rich in alluvial deposits. From the year 1903 (the first in which reliable statistics of production were kept) to 1921, the gold produced in the colony and Ashanti amounted to 5,062,267 fine ozs., valued at £21,504,750l. The highest annual production was in 1914, viz.:—410,655 fine ozs., valued at £1,744,498l. In 1921 the value of gold and gold dust exported was £55,097l. Bitumen is found along the banks of the river Bonni, in Apollonia and the stream Akyikyiri, flowing into the Ehi lagoon near Half Assinie. Manganese ore has been found near the railway line, 33 miles from Secondee, and this important ore is now being exported to England and America in considerable quantities. Extensive deposits of Bauxite exist, the most important being situated near Mpralso in the Kwahu district where a large quantity of high grade ore has been located. In the Winnabu district tin ore has been discovered and the deposit is being tested. In the same locality a silver lead vein has been located. In the Eastern Province near Kibbi diamonds have been found, and the alluvial is being worked. Small diamonds have also been found in other localities.

Palm oil is used chiefly in the manufacture of soap and candles, and though for this reason its value fluctuates to some extent with the tallow market, the average value of the exports of this article is consistently high. The Volta River District is the most important centre for palm oil, on account of the facilities afforded by the river for transport to the coast. The oil is packed in casks, rolled to the river, towed by canoes to Akuse, and thence by launches to Addah for shipment to Europe. In other parts of the country the casks are rolled along the road to the nearest sea-port. The value of the palm oil exported in 1921 decreased to £7,717l., but the average value for the previous ten years was £77,187l.