BECHUANALAND PROTECTORATE.

Situation and Area.

The territory of the Bechuanaland Protectorate is bounded on the south by the Cape Colony, on the East by the Transvaal Colony, on the north by the British South Africa Company’s territory and the Zambesi and Chobe Rivers, and on the west by German territory. Its area is estimated at about 275,000 square miles, and the native population at about 127,000. The European population numbers about 1,000.

History.

During the year 1885, Sir Charles Warren, who was in command of an expedition despatched from England to pacify Southern Bechuanaland, where for some time previously hostilities had been proceeding between the Bechuans and Boers from the South African Republic, visited the principal chiefs in Northern Bechuanaland (known as the Bechuanaland Protectorate), Khama, Gasitse, and Sebele, and as a result a British Protectorate was proclaimed over their territories. No further steps were taken until the year 1891, when, by an Order in Council dated 9th May, the limits of the Bechuanaland Protectorate were more clearly defined, and the High Commissioner was authorised to appoint such officers as might appear to him to be necessary to provide for the administration of justice, the raising of revenue, and generally for the peace, order, and good government of all persons within the limits of the Order. Sir Sidney Shippard, the Administrator of Bechuanaland, was appointed Resident Commissioner, and an Assistant Commissioner was appointed for the Northern Protectorate, and another for the Southern Protectorate.

For fiscal and several other purposes the Protectorate was treated as a portion of the Crown Colony of British Bechuanaland, until the latter was annexed to the Cape Colony on the 15th November, 1895. In the autumn of that year arrangements were made for the transfer of the administration of the Bechuanaland Protectorate, with the exception of certain reserves for native chiefs, to the British South African Company, and the Company’s police were moved down to a camp in the Protectorate at Pitsani Potlogo. On the 29th of December Dr. Jameson, with his police, crossed the border of the South African Republic and marched towards Johannesburg, which was at the time in a state of great unrest, but being defeated by the Boers at Doornkop, surrendered on the 2nd January, 1896. In consequence of the raid, the administration of the Protectorate was not transferred to the Company. Since the annexation of British Bechuanaland to the Cape the Protectorate has been governed as a separate territory under the name of the Bechuanaland Protectorate, and the form of government is very similar to that which obtains in Basutoland. There is a Resident Commissioner, who is under the direction of the High Commissioner, and there are two Assistant Commissioners, one stationed at Francistown, in the Northern Protectorate, and the other at Gaberones, in the Southern Protectorate. For the maintenance of law and order there is a force of police known as the Bechuanaland Protectorate Police, numbering 180. This force is under the direct control of the Resident Commissioner. There are 12 officers, 34 European non-commissioned officers and men, and 136 Basuto non-commissioned officers and men. The police are stationed in small detachments at various places in the Protectorate. The headquarters is at Mafeking, in the Cape Colony, which is also the headquarters of the Resident Commissioner.

Climate.

The climate is fairly healthy during seven months of the year. During the summer months malarial fever is generally prevalent.

Native Chiefs.

The principal chiefs are:—
Khama, Chief of the Bamangwato, whose chief town is Serowe.
Sebele, Chief of the Bakwena, who lives at Borakalala.
Bathoen, Chief of the Bangwaketsi, who lives at Kanye.
Linchiwe, Chief of the Bakhatla, who lives at Mochudi.
Mathile, Chief of the Batswana, who lives at Lake Ngami, near which at Tsau there is a small detachment of police under a sub-inspector, who is also a magistrate for the territory.
Baitlotle, Chief of the Bamalete, who lives at Ramoutsu.

Means of Communication.

The main trunk railway to the North, which connects Rhodesia with Cape Town and which has now been extended beyond the Victoria Falls, runs through the Protectorate. The line north of Vryburg in the Cape Colony is the property of the Rhodesia Railways, Limited, to whom, under an agreement made in 1894, the Protectorate Government pays a subsidy of 20,000l. a year.

Finances.

The estimated expenditure for the year ending the 31st March, 1907, is 78,637l., and the estimated revenue 29,000l. The deficiency is met by an Imperial grant-in-aid, which, for the year
ending the 31st March, 1907, was fixed at 44,000l. The revenue is derived principally from Customs and Hut Tax, and the chief items of expenditure are police and the railway subsidy. The High Commissioner's Proclamation, No. 11 of Aug. 5th, 1903, declared the admission of the Bechuanaland Protectorate into a South African Customs Union in terms of the Convention entered into in that year between Cape Colony, Natal, the O.R.C., Transvaal, Southern Rhodesia, Basutoland, and Bechuanaland Protectorate. A new Convention was signed in 1906, but the position of the Bechuanaland Protectorate as a member of the Union remained unchanged.

Establishment.

Resident Commissioner (acting), Lt.-Col. F. W. Panzera.
Government Secretary and Accountant to Resident Commissioner, Barry May, 700l.
Clerk and Registrar to Resident Commissioner, Myles Williams, 350l.
Clerk, R. M. Dean, 350l.
Assistant Commissioner, Northern Protectorate, Lt.-Col. F. W. Panzera, 750l., and 100l. travelling allowance.
Clerk, E. O. Butler, 350l.
Assistant Commissioner, Southern Protectorate, J. Ellenberger, 750l., and 100l. travelling allowance.
Clerk, A. G. Stigand, 350l., and Suhuana allowance, 50l.
Magistrate, N'Gamiland, G. A. Merry, 200l.
Chief Customs Officer, Barry May, 100l.
Assistant Resident Magistrate, Serowe, R. M. Daniel, 100l.
Inspectors, R. M. Daniel, 400l.; C. R. Nettleton, 450l.
Sub-Inspectors, H. Martin, W. B. Surmon, G. A. Merry, H. D. Hannay, R. Reilly, A. W. Hodson and H. V. Eason, 300l. to 350l.
Paymaster, H. Fielding, 350l.
Medical Officer, D. M. MacRae, 485l.
Controller of Stores, W. J. Hepworth, 450l.
Veterinary Surgeon, W. H. Chase, 485l.

SWAZILAND.

Swaziland lies to the East of the Transvaal and is bounded on the East by Portuguese territory and Tongaland, now part of Natal. Its extent is 6,536 square miles, and its population consists of 85,491 natives and 890 whites. The natives are of a kindred race to the Zulus. Both the Boers and Cetewayo claimed authority over it. Her Majesty's Government, however, in the Conventions of Pretoria (1881) and London (1884), expressly stipulated for the independence of Swaziland.

The Swazis made little good use of their independence. The King Umbandine granted away to concessionaires practically all sources of revenue, lands, minerals and every conceivable right which could be made a source of profit. It became necessary, in consequence of the number of white men in the country, that the Administration should be placed in more capable hands, and under a Convention of 1890 between Her Majesty and the South African Republic, a provisional Government was, with the consent of the Swazis, set up, consisting of a Government Committee selected by these two Powers and the Swazi Government, of a Government Secretary, and of a Chief Court. In accordance with pledges given to the Government of the South African Republic this administration came to an end three years later, when the British Government signed a fresh Convention, which permitted the South African Republic to acquire from the Queen Regent and her Council an Organic Proclamation (a Native Order in Council) conferring on the South African Republic rights of jurisdiction, legislation and administration without incorporation in the South African Republic. The Swazis never signed the Organic Proclamation which had been drafted for them, and accordingly its provisions with some of those in the 1893 Convention were embodied in the final Convention of 1894 under which the South African Republic exercised powers of protection, legislation, jurisdiction and administration in Swaziland, subject to the limitations of the Convention.

On the conquest of the Transvaal, all the rights and powers of the late South African Republic passed to His Majesty, but since the other party to the Convention of 1894 had disappeared without the limitations therein, an Order in Council under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act was issued in June, 1903, providing that the Governor of the Transvaal should administer Swaziland, and conferring on him the right to legislate by Proclamation.

In accordance with the Powers granted to him, the Governor issued a Proclamation in 1904 providing for Native Administration and for dealing with the concessions question. By it criminal jurisdiction was vested solely in the Resident magistrate, and an appeal was permitted from the decisions of the Chiefs in civil cases to his Court. The chiefs were otherwise confirmed in their civil jurisdiction as far as aboriginal natives were concerned.

The Governor provided for the appointment of a commission to deal with concessions. As already stated, the late King had granted, with the assent of his Council, all sorts of concessions, e.g., exemption from taxes, exclusive rights to import arms, to trade, to manufacture, rights over lands and minerals. These were all to be examined by the Commission. The Government was to have the right to expropriate the holders of any of the concessions, except those connected with land and minerals, on payment of the value of the concession before the war, provision being made that the Commission should decide the value in any case of dispute. The Commission reported early in 1906. During 1905 and 1906 the same Commission has been engaged in delimiting the boundaries of the concessions which give rights over land and minerals, with a view, not only of settling disputes, but also of providing for the natives. Lord Selborne also paid a visit to Swaziland in September, 1906, in order to discuss with the Queen Regent and her councillors various outstanding questions connected with the country.

Meanwhile, His Majesty's Government having determined to transfer Swaziland to the control of the High Commissioner for South Africa on the grant of Responsible Government to the Transvaal, an Order in Council was issued on the 1st of December, 1906, making provision to this effect.
