CAPE OF GOOD HOPE.

Extent and Boundaries.

The Cape of Good Hope, strictly speaking, is a small promontory near the south-west extremity of the continent of Africa. But the extensive Colony of the name is bounded by the Atlantic and the Southern or Indian Oceans on the west and south; it is bounded on the north to the west of longitude 22° by the Orange River, and on the north-east by the Orange River Colony and Natal. The Cape Colony, with the Transkei, contains an area of 276,995 square miles, being over five times that of England. It extends from 26 to 35 deg. S. lat., and from 17 to 30 deg. E. long.

In 1844 Letters Patent were issued annexing Natal to the Cape, but in 1856 it was constituted a separate Colony.

Twelve islands off Angra Pequena, on the coast of Damaraland (Plum-pudding, Roast-beef, Holland's Bird, Mercury, Ichaboe, Seal, Penguin, Halifax, Long Possession, Albatross, and Mona), with the adjacent rocks, were annexed in 1867, and added to the Cape Colony in 1874.

In 1876, three large tracts of Kaffraria—namely, Fingoland, Idutywa Reserve, and Noman's Land, were brought under the more direct control of Government, and on the 12th of June, 1876, Letters Patent were issued authorising the Governor to annex these territories to the Cape of Good Hope, on condition of the Cape Parliament passing an Act to provide for their government. Such an Act was passed as No. 38 of 1877, but the territories were not actually incorporated until the 1st of October, 1879.

On the 12th March, 1878, the Port of Walvisch Bay, situated a few miles north of the tropic of Capricorn, was proclaimed British territory. It was annexed to the Colony by proclamation dated 7th August, 1884.

On the 15th October, 1880, the Province of Griqualand West was incorporated with the Cape Colony.

Under Proclamation No. 13 of the 26th January, 1882, were issued certain laws and regulations for the government of the territories known respectively as Tembuland, Emigrant Tamboekieland, Bomvanaland, and Gcalekaland, of which, by royal warrant dated the 14th November, 1881, the officer administering the government of the Cape of Good Hope was appointed Governor. By proclamation No. 140 of 26th August, 1885, issued under Act 3 of 1886, these territories were annexed to the Cape Colony. A similar warrant was passed on the 27th July, 1881, in respect to the St. John's River Territory, which was annexed to the Colony by Proclamation No. 215 of the 15th September, 1884.

The Xesibe country ("Mount Ayllif") was annexed to the Colony by Letters Patent of the 23rd August and Proclamation of 25th October, 1886, and the Rode Valley, Pondoland, by Letters Patent of 29th July, 1887, and Proclamation of October, 1887 (Act No. 45 of 1887). Under Act No. 5 of 1894 the whole of Pondoland was annexed. Basutoland, now an independent Colony, formed part of the Cape from 1871 to 1884.

On the 16th of November, 1895, British Bechuanaland was incorporated with the Cape under Law No. 41 of 1895.

History.

On 14th September, 1486, Bartholomew de Diaz, a Portuguese commander, landed in Algoa Bay. Vasco de Gama doubled the Cape 11 years later,
from which time it appears to have been resorted to by European navigators of all nations, but chiefly by Portuguese, Dutch, and English. British ships visited the Cape in 1591, and about 1602 the Dutch made it a place of call. In 1620 two English East India commanders, by a proclamation dated from Saldanha Bay, took possession of the Cape in the name of Great Britain; but no settlement was formed. In 1648 a Dutch East Indiaman, the Haarlem, was wrecked in Table Bay, the crew remaining there some time. In 1652 J. A. Van Riebeeck, duly commissioned by the "Chamber of Seventeen" at Amsterdam, landed at Table Bay accompanied by 100 persons, and took possession of what is now the site of Cape Town on behalf of the Dutch East India Company. In 1671 the first formal purchase of land was made from the Hottentots, and another purchase took place the following year. At the time of the revocation of the Edict of Nantes, the European population received a slight addition of French Protestants, but their descendants have not maintained any distinctive position in the country. The rule of the Dutch East India Company proved very distasteful to the burghers, who were continually prompted to move further and further from the seaboard and original seat of colonisation. Following these migratory colonists, a magistracy was established at Swellendam in 1745, and another at Graaff Reinet in 1786, and in 1788 the Great Fish River was proclaimed the boundary of the Colony. In 1795, Holland having yielded to the French Revolutionary Government, an English force proceeded to the Cape of Good Hope to secure it against the French for the Prince of Orange, but the Governor refused to obey the mandate of the Prince, and the British force thereupon proceeded to take possession, upon which a capitulation was arranged, and the administration of the Government was assumed by General Craig. An Act of Parliament (37 Geo. III., c. II.) was passed to regulate the trade with the new possession. By the Peace of Amiens the Cape of Good Hope was restored to the Batavian Republic, and evacuated in 1803, but it was again captured by a British Force in 1806, and at the General Peace of 1814 it was ceded in perpetuity to the British Crown. During the interval between the Peace of Amiens and the recapture by the British in 1806, the Colony had made rapid progress, owing to the abolition of the rule of the Dutch East India Company, and the wise regulations of government which had been substituted.

An important event in the history of the Cape was the expulsion in 1809 of the Kaffirs from the Zuurveldt, a district west of the Great Fish River. In 1817 that district was visited by the then Governor, who saw the importance of its colonisation as a barrier against the Kaffir power, and in 1820 Parliament voted a sum of £50,000 to promote emigration to the Cape, and 4,000 British immigrants were brought to the Colony and settled in the eastern districts. In December, 1834, began the first of what are called the Kaffir wars, when the Gaika tribe, 20,000 strong, overran the whole south-eastern portion of the Colony, but were defeated, and their lands up to the Kei River proclaimed British territory, but Lord Glenelg, then Secretary of State, refused to ratify the annexation. In 1846 the second Kaffir war broke out, but was speedily suppressed, and the colonial border was extended to the Kei River, as proposed by Sir Benjamin D'Urban. On Christmas Day, 1850, began the third Kaffir war, which lasted nearly three years, and in its earlier stages was aggravated by a simultaneous rebellion of the Kat River Hottentots.

In 1836 began what is called the trekking of a part of the Dutch or Boer population. This remarkable movement, which resulted in the colonisation of Natal, the Free State, and the Transvaal, may be ascribed to several causes, of which the chief were:

(1.) General dislike of the policy of Great Britain in relation to slavery and the Native question.
(2.) Particular resentment against the policy of Lord Glenelg in reversing the policy of Sir Benjamin D'Urban in relation to the first Kaffir war.
(3.) Resentment against the mode in which compensation had been made to them for the loss of their slaves under the Imperial Act abolishing slavery, namely, by orders for payment payable in London, which they could only dispose of on the spot at an enormous discount.

The years 1849 and 1850 were years of continued excitement, owing to the proposals of the Government at home to send convicts to the Cape. In view of the agitation, carried almost to the point of active resistance, the project was abandoned. In 1856 the German Legion, which had been formed during the Crimean war, was brought to the Cape, and the men, numbering 2,300, disposed in selected spots on the frontier for defensive purposes. The same year (1856) was remarkable for the prevalence in Native Kaffraria of a cattle-killing delusion, preached by a young prophetess, which resulted in wide-spread starvation. The political changes which have occurred in the last 20 years are briefly described under the title Constitution. One of the most important events in the recent economical and social history of the Cape has been the discovery of diamonds beyond the Orange River, which is described under the title of Diamonds.

Climate.

The climate of the Cape is very favourable to Europeans. The air is dry and bracing, the heat seldom oppressive, and the winter weather mild and delightful; snow or ice is practically unknown except in the more elevated localities. The mean temperature at Royal Observatory, near Cape Town, is—maximum 70°9, minimum 53°4, and average rainfall for the last 15 years 27°10 inches. Alwal N. (4,330 ft. above sea) shows 74°0 and 44°1 maximum and minimum respectively, rainfall average for 15 years being 23°71 inches.

In the Eastern and Midland divisions the chief rainfall is during the summer months (November to April), in the Western districts during the winter months.

The Cape offers many localities presenting the requisites of altitude and extreme dryness for the modern treatment of consumptive patients.

Cape Government Railways.

The railways of the Cape Colony were originally commenced by private enterprise at Cape Town, and when, in 1873, the lines were taken over by the Government, only 63 miles were open. New construction was then undertaken in the shape of three separate systems, starting from the principal seaports of the Colony, viz., Cape Town, Port Elizabeth and East London.

In 1886, 1,599 miles had been opened for traffic, and for a period of some three years there was a suspension of further work, though the necessity of making progress towards the establishing of through communication within the Colony, and the securing of the trade of the inland States to the north of the Colony was constantly kept in view.
Consequently, on the discovery of the Gold Fields in the Transvaal abnormal development in railway construction ensued, and the same is now, and has been, observable in respect to the rapid extension of the railways in Rhodesia.

On December, 31st, 1905, the Cape Government railways consisted of 2,987 miles of line, divided into three systems, known as Western, Midland and Eastern.

(1.) The Western System, starting from Cape Town, extends to Vryburg, a distance of 774 miles.

The following branch lines form part of the Western System:—Wynberg and Simon's Town (20 miles), serving the populous suburbs of Cape Town and watering places in its vicinity; Malmesbury, Eende Kuil line (110 miles), which leaves the Main Line at Kraasfontein Junction. From Kalabas Kraal on this line there is a 2 feet gauge line to Hopefield vid Darling, a distance of about 47 miles. These two branches serve a very important grain-producing centre. On the main line there are alternative routes between Bellville and Mulder's Vlei, one of which (the branch, 26 miles) serves the Stellenbosch district. At Eerste River on the Stellenbosch line there is a branch to Sir Lowry's Pass and Caledon (66 miles), which serves a rich agricultural district.

Another branch leaves the Main Line at Paarl and runs through a fertile district to French Hoek (via Simondium), a distance of 17 miles. At Hutchinson there is a branch, 86 miles long, to Carnarvon. From De Aar a branch line runs to Prieska, 112 miles. From Fourteen Streams there is a line, 4 miles long, to the Transvaal Border, where it connects with the C.S.A. Railway's new line from the border to Klerksdorp.

The new Cape Central Railway (205 miles), a private line constructed under a Government subsidy, runs from Worcester through Swellendam and Riversdale, to Fore Bay (about 4 miles from Mossel Bay), where it joins the Government line which is being constructed from Mossel Bay to George. The line from Worcester through to Mossel Bay was opened for public traffic on 22nd January, 1906, and is worked by the New Cape Central Railway Company. The line serves several productive agricultural districts.

The Cape Flats and Suburban Railway Syndicate own a short line of railway from Maitland, where it joins the main line of the Cape Government railways, to Ottery Road on the Cape Flats, a distance of 7 miles. By Act 34, 1906, Parliament authorised the acquisition of the existing line by the Government, and the extension thereof from Ottery Road to Diep River (about 2 miles) to join the Simon's Town line.

A short line, four miles in length, was built by the Milnerton Estates Company, Limited, from Craig's Crossing, which is situated between Woodstock and Salt River stations, to the Milnerton estates. This branch is worked by the Government on behalf of the Milnerton Estates Company.

The Cape Government railways end at Vryburg, where the lines of the Rhodesia Railways, Limited, commence. The length of line between Vryburg and Bulawayo (Bulawayo exclusive), 588 miles, is worked by the Cape Government Railway Department for the owning company at actual cost, and from Bulawayo northwards the lines are worked by the Beira and Mashonaland Railways.

Railway extension in Rhodesia has been progressing rapidly within the last few years. From Bulawayo there is now through communication to Gwelo, Salisbury, Beira, and the Victoria Falls (280 miles from Bulawayo and 1,642 miles from Cape Town).

By Act 34 of 1906 Parliament authorised the construction of the following lines to further open up the Western Districts of the Colony, viz.:—Eende Kuil, to a point in the vicinity of Graaf Water or Vogelfontein, in the direction of Van Ryn's Dorp, a 3ft. 6in. gauge line (53½ miles), at a cost of £231,773.

Hopefield, to a point at or near Hoetges Bay, vid the vicinity of Lange Riet Vlei and the vicinity of Vredenburg (40 miles), at a cost of £87,640. This will be a 2ft. gauge line.

Belmont to Douglas, a 2ft. gauge line (55 miles), at a cost of £100,870.

The railway known as the Sea Point Railway (3¼ miles long) has been acquired by the Government, and is being worked under an agreement whereby the Green and Sea Point Municipality guarantee and secure the repayment to the Government, for a period of ten years, of any loss in working, interest on capital, etc.

The Government has constructed a line from Van der Stel, near Somerset West, to Somerset Strand, 2½ miles. It is being worked under guarantee of the Somerset Strand Municipal Council, the arrangement being similar to that under which the Sea Point line is worked.

By Act 34, 1906, Parliament authorised the construction of a line from Ceres Road to Ceres, 10¾ miles, at a cost of £60,873, provided the local authority of Ceres enter into an agreement with the Government guaranteeing and securing to the Government the payment for a period of ten years, commencing at the expiration of one year from the date of the opening of the line for traffic, an annual amount not exceeding £1,000, to cover the actual loss incurred by the Government in the working and maintaining of the said line, together with interest at 4% per annum on the capital cost of the line.

By the same Act Parliament has authorised the construction of a line from Bellville to Durbanville, 7½ miles, at a cost of £26,000, the Government being guaranteed against any loss on working, for ten years after the opening of the line for traffic, by the Durbanville Municipality.

The Mafeking Municipality owns a line of railway, 8 miles long, from Mafeking to Buurman's Drift, on the Transvaal Border, which has been leased by the Government. Provision was made in Act 44 of 1905 for the sum of £84,150 for the construction and equipment of a line of railway to Ottohoop in the Transvaal, a distance of 22 miles, in order to cater for the trade of the Western Transvaal, the construction of the line to be contingent upon the Cape Government entering into an agreement with the High Commissioner protecting the Colony for a period of not less than ten years against the introduction of lower rates over any lines which might be built by any other administration thereafter to Ottohoop. Negotiations were entered into with the Transvaal Government with the view of concluding a Convention to this effect, and providing for the construction, equipment, working and maintenance of the portion of the line which would lie in the Transvaal. Parliament, by Act 34, 1906, authorised the utilization of £9,184 of the £84,150 already voted for the acquisition of the line to Buurman's Drift.

In June, 1906, a Convention was entered into between the High Commissioner and the Cape Government for the construction and working by the O.R.C. Government, at their own cost, of a
line of railway from Bloemfontein to a point on the Cape Government Railways at or near Kimberley. Act 34 of 1906 ratified this Convention, and authorised the construction of the line to be proceeded with.

(2.) The Midland system starts from Port Elizabeth and joins the Western system at De Aar (359 miles). From Naauwpoort Junction (270 miles) the trunk line to the Orange River Colony and the Transvaal is continued.

The lines through the Orange River Colony (then Orange Free State) were built by the Cape Government Railways under convention with the Orange Free State, in terms of which the Cape constructed and worked the lines and the Orange Free State drew a moiety of the profits. On the 1st January, 1897, the Orange Free State Government took over these lines from the Cape and established its own railway department for the working of the lines in that territory.

In addition to the trunk line of the Midland system there is a line branching off at Zwart-kops, which touches Uitenhage and Graaff-Reinet and rejoins the main line at Rosmead Junction, after running a distance of 276 miles. This line passes through agricultural and fruit-growing country. From Klipplaat (123 miles from Port Elizabeth) on the Uitenhage-Graaff-Reinet line there is a branch to Oudtshoorn of 154 miles, through some of the most productive districts in the Colony.

Another branch line belonging to the Midland system is that from Alcedale to Graham's Town (35 miles). This line is continued to Port Alfred (a seaside resort for the surrounding districts) by a railway owned by the Kowie Railway Company, Limited. This private branch is 43 miles in length, and was constructed under subsidy from the Government.

A junction line, 83 miles long, with the Eastern system (No. 3) at present exists from Rosmead Junction (243 miles from Port Elizabeth) to Stormberg Junction (326 miles from Port Elizabeth and 221 from East London); this line forms part of the Midland system. From a point—Bamboo Junction—on this line there is a branch about 17 miles in length, which serves the Cape Collieries and other companies' coal mines with railway communication. By Act 38 of 1902 the Government authorised the expenditure of the sum of £30,000 for the purpose of extending this line from its present terminus to Romansfontein, a distance of eight miles, but, up to the present (August, 1905), construction work on this Branch has not been commenced.

Parliament authorised (by Act 34, 1906,) the construction of a line, 2½ miles long, from Schoombie to Maraisburg, at a cost of £100,000. There is also a branch, 2 miles in length, from Colesberg Junction, on the line from Naauwpoort to Norval's Pont, to Colesberg Town.

A junction line further south, through agricultural and stock-producing districts having a large native population, runs from Somerset East to Cookhouse (on the main line of the Midland system), and on, via Fort Beaufort, to King William's Town (on the Eastern system), thus forming another connection between the Midland and Eastern systems, and considerably shortening the journey by rail between Port Elizabeth and East London. The total length of this line is 152 miles.

In Act 29 of 1904 provision was made by Parliament for the construction of a line from the seaport of Mossel Bay, lying between Cape Town and Port Elizabeth, to George (35 miles), at a cost not exceeding £353,231. Twenty-three miles of rails at the Mossel Bay end have already been laid. By Act 34 of 1906 Parliament authorised the extension of this railway from George to Oudtshoorn, a distance of 468 miles, at a cost of £372,971, to join the branch which has already been constructed to the latter place from Klipplaat, on the Graaff Reinet line.

In 1898 Parliament authorised the construction of a narrow-gauge line from a point at or near Port Elizabeth to Avontuur, a distance of 179 miles. This line and the Hopefield line on the Western system are a new departure in Cape Government railway construction and working, as they are light railways of a 2 feet gauge instead of the standard gauge of 3 feet 6 inches. The experiment will be watched with much interest. The section of the line Port Elizabeth to Assegai Bosch, 102 miles, has been opened for traffic, and the whole line to Avontuur is expected to be opened early in 1907. The construction and working of a branch line (33 miles long) from a point on this railway near Port Elizabeth to Walmer, on a 2 feet gauge, has been authorised per Act 34 of 1906, on the understanding that the Walmer Municipality reimburses the Government the interest on the cost of construction and equipment of the line, and any loss on working, for a period of ten years.

Per Act 16 of 1904 Parliament authorised the construction by the South-Western Railway Company, Limited, of a 2 feet gauge line from Knysna to a point near Yzernek in the district of Knysna, a distance of about 16½ miles. In terms of this Act the Company is being granted a subsidy by the Government calculated at the rate of £800 per mile.

Construction work has been commenced on this line.

The Government, per Act 34, 1906, offers a subsidy of not exceeding £1,300 per mile, for the construction of a railway from a point on the South Western Railway to an approved point on the Mossel Bay-George Railway, either of 3 feet 6 inch or 2 feet gauge.

By the same Act Parliament has sanctioned the construction of a 2 feet gauge railway from Barkly Bridge (20½ miles from Port Elizabeth, on the main line), to a point on the Kowie Railway, between Roundhill and Port Alfred, via Alexandria, a distance of 90 miles, at a cost of £313,377.

(3) The Eastern system starting from East London was originally constructed to Aliwal North (280 miles) lying on the south bank of the Orange River, the boundary between the Cape Colony and the Orange River Colony.

In 1891 a junction with the trunk lines through the Orange Free State towards the Transvaal was effected by a connecting line from a point 33 miles south of Aliwal North to Springfontein, in the Orange Free State (314 miles from East London).

As before stated, through communication between the Eastern, Midland and Western districts exists, and a junction line further south has been constructed from Cookhouse to King William's Town, thus forming another connection between the Midland and Eastern systems.

There is a branch line from Blaney to King William's Town (10 miles), an old-established centre, and formerly a military station of some magnitude, and a branch line (66 miles) connects Sterkstroom with the Indwe Coal Mines.

There is also a light line of standard gauge between Bowker's Park and Tarkastad, a distance of 33 miles.
Surveys have been made through the fertile and generally densely populated native districts of the Transkei and East Griqualand, with a view to future railway connection with the sister colony of Natal.

Parliament authorised by Act 38 of 1902 the construction of the following lines, which will further open up the eastern districts of the Colony:

- A 3 feet 6 inch gauge line from a point at or near Amabele loop to Butterworth, towards Umtata, a distance of 78 miles, at a cost of £619,045l.
- A 3 feet 6 inch gauge line from Indwe to Maclear, towards Kokstad, for a distance of 107 miles, at a cost of £596,901l.
- A 2 feet gauge line from Aliwal North to Gairtney (47 miles), towards Barkly East, at a cost of £148,849l.

The Amabele-Butterworth line has been opened for traffic as far as Eagle (54 miles), and is expected to be completed and opened for traffic to Butterworth in December, 1906. By Act 34 of 1906 Parliament has sanctioned the extension of this line from Butterworth to Idutywa (26 miles) in the direction of Umtata, at a cost of £117,842l.

The line to Maclear was opened for traffic on the 29th August, 1906. The total length of the branch from Sterkstroom to Maclear is 171 miles.

With regard to the Aliwal North-Gairtney line, the section from Aliwal North to Lady Grey has been constructed under Act 29 of 1904 as a 3 feet 6 inch gauge line, and is open for traffic. The construction, on a 3 feet 6 inch gauge, of the remaining portion to Gairtney (21 miles) has been authorised by Act 34 of 1906 at a cost of £197,515l.

Parliament, per Act 48 of 1905, authorised the construction by a company styled "The St. Johns-Kokstad Railway Company, Limited," of a line of railway of the standard gauge from a point adjacent to the Umzimvubu River at the port of St. Johns to Kokstad. This line, which is 142 miles in length, is subsidized by the Government, the subsidy authorised being calculated at the rate of £1,500 per mile.

Parliament, per Act No. 49 of 1905, also authorised the construction by a company styled "The St. Johns-Umtata Railway Company, Limited," of a line of railway 76 miles in length from a point upon the proposed St. Johns-Kokstad Railway (authorised by Act 48 of 1905) at Isenuka to Umtata. The line authorised is of the standard gauge, and a subsidy will be paid by the Government in respect thereof, calculated at the rate of £1,500 per mile. These two lines, when completed, will open up the native districts of Pondoland and the Transkei. The construction of these two lines has not yet been started.

The construction of the following two lines, to branch from the eastern system, has been authorised by Act 34 of 1906, viz.:

- A 2 feet gauge line from Cathcart to a point in the vicinity of Fairfield or Chilton (49 miles), at a cost of £138,229l.
- A 2 feet gauge line, Queenstown to Whittlesea (22 miles), at a cost of £55,000l.

By the same Act the Cape Government is empowered to enter into a convention with the Natal Government for the construction and working, by the latter, at their own cost, of a line of railway from the Natal border to Riverside. In this connection Parliament has also authorised the construction, by the Cape, of a line from Riverside to Llewellyn (27 miles), at a cost of £256,000l.

On the 31st December, 1905, the mileage of the Cape Government Railways open for traffic was 2,987, and the length authorised and under construction on that date was 268 miles. The gross receipts for the twelve months ended December 31st, 1905, were £4,047,065l. compared with £4,144,319l. for the year 1904; the working expenses were £3,076,920l. compared with £3,719,822l. for the year 1904, resulting in a return of 3l. 6s. 10d. per cent. on capital expended as compared with 1l. 11s. 8d. per cent. for the previous year.

Through railway communication now exists between all the Government lines of the Cape Colony to Bulawayo, Victoria Falls and Broken Hill and Salisbury in Rhodesia; to Beira in Portuguese East Africa; to Bloemfontein, Johannesburg, Pretoria and Pietersburg on the Central South African Railways; and to Durban and other important centres in Natal, and Delagoa Bay in the Portuguese territory.

The existing colonial lines, in common with all South African lines (save the private line, 100 miles in length, owned and worked by the Copper Mining Company in Namaqualand, isolated from any Government line, which has a gauge of 2 feet 6 inches, and the 2 feet gauge lines referred to herein), are constructed on a gauge of 3 feet 6 inches. The lines are well and substantially laid, and both the rate of speed and their general comfort and equipment are admittedly creditable. Especial attention is devoted to the peculiar requirements of long journeys and the variations of climate experienced. Corridor saloons, carefully constructed with a view to comfort and stability, are provided on the through trains. They are fitted with lavatory accommodation and electric light, while the provision of bedding at reasonable charges adds materially to the comfort of the passengers.

Owing to the opening of the Klerksdorp-Fourteen Streams line, there are now (September, 1906) alternative routes to the Transvaal from Cape Town. There is a morning train daily from Cape Town to Johannesburg and Pretoria via Kimberley and Klerksdorp. On Tuesdays this train starts from the Cape Town docks for the convenience of passengers who arrive by the mail steamer from England, and conveys first, second and third class passengers direct from the docks at Cape Town to Kimberley and stations in the Transvaal, including Johannesburg, Pretoria, Klerksdorp and Potchefstroom; the train also serves stations in the Western district of the Cape Colony—Worcester, Matjiesfontein, Laingsburg, Beaufort West, etc. A through sleeping saloon for Bulawayo and Victoria Falls is attached to the train and goes forward from Kimberley to Victoria Falls by the train de luxe, leaving the former station each Wednesday evening.

The dining and sleeping saloon train starts from the boat side, and completes the journey to Kimberley in 30½ hours, and to Johannesburg in 47 hours.

Passengers by mail steamers for up-country who are desirous of reaching their destinations as early as possible, and who do not wish to spend any time in Cape Town, are thus enabled to purchase their tickets, entrain at ship's side, and continue their journey at once.

A railway official boards the vessels before disembarkment for the purpose of affording information to intending passengers, and special arrangements have been made with the Customs Department for dealing expeditiously with their baggage.

A conductor and also an experienced chef accompany the train, and passengers can obtain all meals on board at a fixed tariff as well as other refreshments at moderate charges.
There is also a train leaving Cape Town every evening travelling to the Transvaal via Naauwpoort and the Orange River Colony, with a connection daily from De Aar to Kimberley, Port Elizabeth, East London, etc.

On Thursdays the "African Express" train de luxe (first class only) runs from Cape Town to Johannesburg and Pretoria via the Orange River Colony.

In connection with the daily train to the Transvaal, via Kimberley, the Zambesi express train de luxe (first and second class), the property of the Rhodesia Railways, Limited, runs from Kimberley on Wednesdays to the Victoria Falls.

Passengers by all through trains to the Transvaal, Orange River Colony, and Rhodesia are supplied with meals by means of dining cars attached to the trains. The catering, which is under the management of a special branch of the railway department, gives every satisfaction. The catering on the Rhodesia Company's train de luxe is in the hands of the Cape Government Railways Refreshment Department, between Kimberley and Bulawayo.

The character of the country traversed near the coast is greatly diversified on each system, though when the higher altitudes are reached the general characteristics are usually similar. On the Western and Midland systems the scenery is perhaps the more imposing, while on the former line the vast stretches of the dry Karroo region, apparently barren and parched throughout a great portion of the year, are not without a certain charm of their own.

After rains the great latent fertility of the Karroo region is apparent, for, within a marvellously short space of time, the whole face of the country becomes carpeted with flowers of brilliant hue, which, with the bright crispness of the atmosphere, add greatly to the enjoyment of the traveller.

The Eastern line through much of its length traverses an open grassy country, presenting many interesting features.

Sets of lantern slides comprising photographs of places of interest in the Cape Colony are being prepared in England for loan to school, educational bodies and the public. These slides, when ready, will be obtainable from the Agent-General for the Cape of Good Hope, 100, Victoria street, London, S.W.

The Government issues tariff books, corrected periodically by the railway authorities, containing full information upon all matters likely to be of interest or service to the public, such as fares, rates, distances, etc.

Harbours.

Harbour works on an extensive scale have been constructed at Table Bay (Cape Town), Port Elizabeth, and East London, under the direction of local boards composed of elective and nominee members.

The expenditure upon construction of works at Table Bay to the 31st December, 1905, has been £4,036,708., and the annual charges for interest and maintenance, including working, are respectively about £11,227l. and £367,551l.

The shipping accommodation consists of an outer harbour, formed in part by the breakwater, and a south arm running parallel with it, enclosing an area of 64 acres, which, with the inner basin, makes a total area of 72½ acres, with a depth ranging from 20 to 30 feet at low water.

Many of the quays are equipped with the most modern appliances for handling cargo, such as electric cranes and capstans; and commodious warehouses are erected in various parts of the Dock. The normal capacity of the docks is 8,000 tons per diem.

The Breakwater is completed to a length of 3,640 feet, and affords protection to vessels anchored in the Bay.

The graving dock is 500 feet on the keel blocks, with a depth of 24½ feet over the sill at entrance at H.W.O.S.T., and a slip is available for vessels up to 500 tons.

The administration of the harbour of Port Elizabeth is in the hands of a Board of seven Commissioners, two elected by wharfage payers paying not less than 10l. a year wharfage, one nominated by the Chamber of Commerce, three by the Government, and the Mayor being a member ex-officio.

The whole of the landing and shipping operations are carried out by the Board departmentally.

The works at Port Elizabeth consist of two jetties, 1,160 feet long, which cost £60,000., and a third jetty, 1,460 feet in length, which has recently been completed at a cost of £85,000.

In addition to the above, there is an explosives jetty, 1,380 feet from the shore, with an aerial ropeway communication. This ropeway is capable of landing 150 tons per day.

There is also a slipway capable of accommodating vessels of 400 tons dead weight.

The Board has an electrical plant, with an output of 236 kilowatts, put down for lighting and power purposes. This plant includes one 10 ton and two 5 ton overhead gantries, and a 20 ton crane.

The Board's hydraulic plant consists of three pumping engines each of 200 horse-power, working 29 wharf cranes, 12 capstans, 4 wool hoists, and a pump for street watering.

The total storage area of the Board's warehouses is about 35,000 square yards.

At East London, at the mouth of the Buffalo River, successful harbour works have been carried out, overcoming the obstruction of sand-bars, which previously to a great extent closed the mouth of the river. The entrance to the river is now protected and sheltered by a solid south breakwater and improved by means of two training walls. The depth of water about the entrance is maintained by three steam pump-hopper dredgers of the latest type. A least depth of water over the bar of about 19 feet at low water ordinary spring tides is available throughout the year. The width between training walls at entrance to river is 250 feet. Steamers of over 8,000 tons gross register now enter the river and discharge cargo alongside wharves. The harbour is well equipped with steam, hydraulic and electric cranes, with a lifting capacity from 2½ up to 50 tons, and possesses a patent slip capable of accommodating vessels up to 1,000 tons dead weight. A new quay on the most up-to-date lines is being constructed on the west bank of the river, and will provide, when finished, the most convenient quay in Africa. The whole of the arrangements on this side are in accordance with the best European models, and cargoes will be landed and despatched with exceptional rapidity—goods being either loaded direct from the ship's hold on to railway trucks or deposited into very spacious sheds. The discharging appliances on this quay will be operated by electricity, and will be of the most modern design. To the 31st December, 1905,
there had been spent on works and interest on loans, £2,119,662.

Diamonds.

The diamond fields of South Africa are situated in the territory known as Griqualand West, which became British territory by cession from the Griqua people in 1871, and remained a separate Colony until October, 1880, when it was annexed to the Cape Colony.

The first diamond was found by accident in 1867, and passed through many hands before its value was suspected. Even when it was admitted to be a diamond doubts were thrown on its origin. Nothing like an organised or systematic examination of the country was made for a long time.

A few diamonds, however, continued to be found, and in the year 1870 an exploring party, chiefly composed of officers of the 20th Regiment, then stationed at Natal, and another of Cape Colonists from King William's Town, proceeded to dig and wash the alluvial drift along the banks of the Vaal River. They soon found diamonds, and their success brought numerous other parties from all parts of the neighbouring Colonies and Republics. Operations were at this time confined to the river banks, which for many miles were covered with mining camps.

In 1871, however, the discovery was made that diamonds existed not only in the drift of the old river-bed near the present course of the Vaal, but in the loose red surface-sand covering the flat grassy country between that river and the Modder, a smaller stream which ultimately joins the Vaal. A vigorous, if not systematic, search soon resulted in the opening of the mines now being worked at and close to Kimberley, and the river banks were soon almost deserted for the more profitable Dry Diggings, where diamonds were found in unexampled profusion.

The River Diggings extend along the Vaal River, principally on the right bank from above Hebron to its junction with the Hart at Delport's Hope. The Dry Mines at present worked are at Kimberley, De Beers, Du Toit's Pan, Bultfontein, Wesselton, Kamfer's Dam, Otto's Kopje, the Leicester Mine, Smith's Prospect Mine, Otto's Prospect Mine. The alluvial diggings at present worked commence at Fourteen Streams, extending principally on the north bank of Vaal River to Delport's Hope, in the Division of Barkly West, and opposite Hebron, and on the south bank, lie the Wedbug Kopje and the Robinson Diggings, in the Division of Kimberley; also on the south bank, below the village of Barkly and in the Division of Barkly West, lie the Waldeck Plant Diggings, Niekerk Rush and Vaal River Estates.

In October, 1899, an Act was promulgated (No. 11 of 1899) to consolidate and amend the laws relating to the prospecting and mining for precious stones in the Colony.

The following table gives the total quantity and value of the export of diamonds during the past five years:

|       | 1901   | 1902   | 1903   | 1904   | 1905   |
|-------|--------|--------|--------|--------|--------|
| Carats.| 2,599,059 | 2,661,920 | 2,694,618 | 2,631,978 | 2,335,846 |
| £      | 4,930,104 | 5,427,360 | 5,472,690 | 5,520,743 | 4,850,659 |

Other Minerals, &c.

Cape coal from various mines situated in the Stormbergens is extensively used upon the Cape Government railways, with good results, both as regards the working of the lines and the development of an industry, the importance of which to the Colony cannot be overrated.

In the neighbourhood of the Indwe, trending in a north-east direction, are considerable tracts of Crown land as yet untested, but reported by mining and geological experts to be in all probability the seat of valuable deposits of coal. It has been suggested that these beds may be connected with those found on the north-west border of Natal.

Mining operations on a large scale are carried on in the division of Namaqualand, where extensive copper deposits exist. Much activity has recently been displayed in this direction owing to the increased demand for copper in manufactures.

The output from the mines during 1903 was 64,555 tons of ore, in 1904, 84,199 tons, and in 1905, 94,854 tons.

During the year 1897 a series of thorough comparative tests was made by the Railway Department of all coals (Welsh, Cape Colonial, Orange Free State and Transvaal) used by the Cape Locomotive Department. Of the mines which supplied the different samples of coal thus tested, twelve are situated in Cape Colony. The trials were carried out on the Eastern System of Railways between East London and Queenstown.

The results obtained showed that the value of a given quantity of the best Cape coal, for use in locomotive or stationary engines, was, roughly speaking, about two-thirds that of an equal quantity of imported ocean Merthyr coal. Among the best Colonial coals for making steam are those from the following mines: Contat's, Penshaw, Indwe, Cape Collieries, and "Wallsend." The Indwe coal possesses the advantage, as regards its use in locomotives, of containing little or no sulphur. The Cyphergat and the Molteno coals are highly bituminous, and the latter has a deservedly high reputation as house coal, but is not so suitable for locomotives as coal of a semi-anthracite nature, like "Wallsend."

The Indwe mine, which is situated in the division of Wodehouse, is connected with the Government railways by a line joining the Eastern system at Sterkstroom. All the other mines in the Colony are served by the Eastern system.

The total output from the Colonial mines during the year 1905 is returned at 164,112 tons. The coal areas in the Colony are of considerable extent, and there is reason to hope that, with increased facilities in mining and transport, the output will improve in quantity and quality.

The laws regulating the working of baser minerals are Acts Nos. 9 of 1877 and 15 of 1883; under which regulations are published by G.N. 638 of 1900.

Precious Minerals.

Gold.

The Millwood Gold Fields, in the Division of Knysna, are the only proclaimed gold fields in the Colony, and the total registered output to the 31st August, 1906, is 3,596 ozs. 16 dwts. 11 grs.

In January, 1899, an Act (No. 31 of 1898) was promulgated to consolidate and amend the laws relating to the prospecting and mining for precious minerals in the Cape Colony, subsequently amended by Act 45 of 1905.
Geological Survey.

A geological survey of the Colony was begun in 1896. The area mapped extends from the west coast south of Zout River, Van Rhyn's Dorp, to a line drawn between Storms River and Willowmore.

A map of part of this area was published with the Report for 1897, and the rest will appear after the survey of the south-western quarter of the Colony is completed. Considerable areas have been mapped outside the south-western districts, in the divisions of Hope Town, Prieska, Kentani, Barkly East, Herschel, Xalanga, Wodehouse, Elliot, Aliwal North, Queenstown, Glen Grey, Uitenhage, Humansdorp, Alexandria, and Matatiele, and maps of some of these divisions have been published in the Reports for 1901, 1902, 1903 and 1904.

The formations hitherto met with in Cape Colony are classified as follows:

Recent or Superficial Deposits.

Cretaceous formation

- Cretaceous Series of Pondoland.
- Uitenhage Series.

† Karroo formation

- Stormberg Series.
- Beaufort " "
- Ecca " "
- Dwyka " "

† Cape formation

- Witteberg Series.
- Bokkeveld " "
- Table Mountain " "

Pre-Cape rocks

- Nieuwerust Series.
- Ibiguas Series.
- Cango Series.
- * Malmesbury Series.

In South and West:

- Matsap Series.
- Griqua Town Series.
- Campbell Rand " "
- * Keis " "

Industries.

The chief industries are the production of wool, wine, wheat, barley, oats, tobacco, lucerne and maize, and the breeding of horses, mules, cattle, goats, sheep and ostriches. The chief exports are diamonds, wool, copper ore, ostrich feathers, mohair, hides and skins. The chief imports are hardware and machinery, wearing apparel of all descriptions, and material therefor, sugar, coffee, other foodstuffs, timber (including manufactured articles), oils, tobacco, and wines and spirits.

The quantity of wine produced in the Colony during 1904, the census year, amounted to 5,686,672 gallons, spirits, to 1,534,069½ gallons, and vinegar to 113,562½ gallons, practically all consumed locally.

Ostrich breeding is carried on largely as heretofore, but farmers are now devoting more attention to the quality of the feathers in their breeding birds than in former years.

In 1860 the export of ostrich feathers was 2,287 lbs.; ten years later it was 28,768 lbs., while in 1904 it amounted to 470,381 lbs., valued at 1,058,982l., and in 1905 to 471,024 lbs., valued at 1,081,187l.

The exports of mohair at corresponding dates were respectively:- 385 lbs., 403,153 lbs., 14,038,780 lbs., valued at 613,358l., and 10,837,682 lbs., valued at 568,480l. The export of wool had risen from 23,172,785 lbs. in 1860, to 48,822,562 lbs. in 1871, and stood at 64,372,270 lbs. in 1904, valued at 1,794,333l., and in 1905 to 63,473,934 lbs., valued at 1,887,459l.

The export of wool and mohair for 1904 and 1905 shows a marked decrease on that of 1902. This is due to the drought which for the last few years has prevailed in the greater portion of the Colony. The high price of slaughter stock has induced the farmers to turn their attention more to cross-breeding for the production of mutton, and this also has had some influence in the decreased export of wool.

On the other hand, an examination of the above figures reveals the gratifying fact that, despite the decrease in the quantity exported, the value of the wool in 1905 greatly exceeds that of 1904. This fact is due in part to the movement which is gradually becoming general throughout the Colony in the direction of grading and sorting of wool. Every effort is being made to foster this movement, and the Government have arranged for expert demonstrations throughout the Colony, and sanguine hopes are entertained of successful results. Among other measures for the amelioration of the agricultural industries of the country, the doctrine of co-operation plays a great part, and efforts are being vigorously put forward to induce farmers to combine and organise their forces in developing both the production and the subsequent advantageous disposal of their produce. These efforts are already beginning to bear fruit.

The above undertakings are carried out under the direct supervision of the Department of Agriculture, which is also charged with the control of all matters connected with the Game Laws, animal industry and diseases, diseases of plants, the suppression of insect pests, viticulture, horticulture, and all other subjects allied with agriculture. Among the other important works being carried out are the investigation of agricultural conditions by means of experiment stations and plots, the distribution of new varieties of seeds, etc., to farmers for experimental purposes and the diffusion of agricultural knowledge among the farming community by means of the publications of the department as well as by lectures and demonstrations by its various experts. The subject of agricultural education also falls within the scope of the department and a well-equipped Agricultural College exists at Elsenburg in the Stellenbosch division.

Large areas of the Colony are peculiarly adapted for the breeding of mules as the nature of the veldt renders any other feeding unnecessary. The industry has been largely taken up in these areas and many farmers are importing jackasses for this purpose. In horse-breeding also there has been renewed activity, the practice of former years, viz., crossing the Colonial mares with English thoroughbred stallions, having been largely reverted to, and, on account of the large importation of racing stock, there is no lack of suitable sires in the country.

* These formations have intrusions of granite and gneiss as well as of basic rocks associated with them.
† These formations have intrusions of basic rocks only.
The Minister for Agriculture, through the Surveyor-General, also administers all matters connected with the Land Laws of the Colony, Mining Laws, Geological Exploration and Survey. The Crown Forests of the Colony also come within his portfolio, being under the direct control of the Chief Conservator of Forests.

**Lands.**

Those desiring to acquire Crown Lands in the Cape Colony must now either compete at public auction at the sales of surveyed lands held under Act 15 of 1887 from time to time as occasion seems to demand in the various districts of the Colony, or they must apply for certain specified areas or farms which have been set aside for selection under Act 37 of 1882 or Act 40 of 1895.

Both these Acts were designed to enable sons of the soil without means, such as the sons of farmers, to obtain land without necessitating the investment of capital, and they require the applicant to select and name the piece of ground he requires; and if his request be entertained, a licence for five years is issued at a rental calculated at 5 per cent. on the capitalised assessed value of the land. Upon the termination of the licence and fulfilment of the conditions respecting occupation and (in the case of Act 37 of 1882) cultivation, the licensee is entitled to a title deed under Act 37 of 1882 on quit-rent tenure under Act 40 of 1895, on payment of the purchase price in instalments extending over 15 years, the balance of unpaid instalments and the survey expenses being secured by a mortgage in favour of the Government.

Act 37 of 1882 deals with small holdings, not larger than 250 morgen, and is suitable for districts in the vicinity of markets where la petite culture may be carried on profitably, but Act 40 of 1895 is rather applicable to cattle or sheep runs of 3,000 to 6,000 morgen in extent, and is most suitable for pastoral districts.

Under Act 15 of 1887, farms in extent varying from the cattle ranch to the market garden or town building lot are surveyed by the Government, and advertised for sale from time to time to the highest bidder at an upset price. The price is assessed at the current market value in the district, and is of course subject to enhancement by competition, but the terms of payment are very easy, one-fifth of the price at which the land is sold being payable within the first 12 months—viz., one-tenth within 6 months and one-tenth within 12 months, and the remainder being secured by a first mortgage at 4 per cent. The balance of the purchase price may, if the purchaser desires it, be paid at once, or in portions of not less than £50 at a time. In case, however, the purchase price is less than £25 the whole amount must be paid in cash at once, or in equal instalments extending over 3 years, and bearing interest at 4 per cent. per annum from the date of sale.

**Forests.**

The total area under forest in the Cape Colony is approximately 680,000 morgen (1,800,000 acres). The attention of the Government has been given to the economical and systematic working of the Crown Forests. The Colony is divided into four Conservancies, each controlled by a Conservator of Forests stationed at Cape Town, King William's Town, Knysna and Umtata respectively, who are directly responsible to the Chief Conservator of Forests for the Colony. The present annual importation of timber into the Colony is about 3,000,000 cubic feet, mostly pine, derived from Europe and America, the balance being hardwood from Australia. There is at present a large importation of hardwood sleepers.

The Fishery Laws and the Guano Islands are also administered by the department, and in connection with the former a properly-equipped steam trawler, the Pieter Faure, was imported in 1897 with a view to opening up the Fishing Industry of the Colony. The work has been extended to Saldanha Bay, Mossel Bay, the L'Agulhas Bank, and portions of the south-east coast, and has been of a most satisfactory nature, the trials made having proved that large quantities of fish are easily procurable by trawling. Private enterprise has now followed the prospecting work of the Government, and a trawler company is sending fish to Cape Town from the L'Agulhas Bank near Mossel Bay. Two trawlers from Grimsby are landing weekly about 20 tons of fish, including numerous soles from the trawling ground discovered near Cape L'Agulhas; several trawlers from Durban, East London, and Port Elizabeth, are working the new trawling area found near Bird Islands. The trout acclimatisation work is still being carried on with a most gratifying measure of success, and some of the rivers have now been opened for public fishing.

**Currency and Banking.**

The legal tender currency is British sterling, and this is also the money of account.

Since the beginning of 1892, the banks having their head offices outside the Colony are only allowed to issue notes supplied to them by the Government, which holds securities deposited by the institution for the total supply of such notes given to the banks. The notes are legal tender and guaranteed by the Government, the banks having to redeem the notes in gold on demand at their chief places of business.

Banks having their head office in the Colony, and having been registered on the 1st January, 1891, can continue to issue their own notes, which are neither guaranteed nor legal tender.

There are 6 banks with 156 branches:—The Standard Bank of South Africa, Limited (98 branches), the Bank of Africa, Limited (26 branches), the African Banking Corporation, Limited (22 branches), the Stellenbosch District Bank, Limited, the National Bank of South Africa, Limited (10 branches), and the Netherlands Bank of South Africa.

The total amount of notes in circulation on the 30th of June, 1905, was 1,196,145l.; legal tender, 1,189,324l.; other, 6,821l.

**Education.**

Under the Education Act, No. 13 of 1865, School Board Act, No. 35 of 1905, and the Higher Education Act, No. 24 of 1874, the Department administers Parliamentary grants to colleges, and to the following classes of schools, viz.:—Undenominational public, district boarding, evening, private farm, poor, mission, aborigines, institutions, art schools, training schools for teachers, and industrial schools for poor whites, for the following purposes, viz.: part payment of salaries, purchase of buildings, furniture, apparatus, and books; training of teachers; support of indigent boarders.

Schools are managed and teachers appointed, subject to the control of the department, by School Boards and by local committees or managers.
The Government grants are, generally speaking, given to supplement local contributions of at least equal amount. The necessary grants are provided from the general revenue, and provision is made for the assessment of a local rate by Divisional or Municipal Councils to bear part of any actual shortage in the accounts of School Boards. The department further undertakes the periodical inspection of schools, collects and publishes educational statistics, and issues certificates of professional competency to teachers.

The School Board Act, No. 35 of 1905, provides for the division of the country into school districts under the control of School Boards elected by the local ratepayers, charged with the supervision of all public and poor schools.

The Government expenditure on education in 1905-1906 was £481,409l. 12s. 9d. On the 30th of June, 1906, there were in operation five colleges and 3,291 schools of various classes.

The University.

Under Act No. 16 of 1873 was established the University of the Cape of Good Hope, whose power to confer the degrees of B.A., M.A., LL.B., LL.D., M.B., and M.D. has been recognised by Letters Patent dated 8th August, 1877. Chancellor: H.R.H. the Prince of Wales, K.G., K.T., K.P.

Under Act No. 6 of 1896, the University is empowered to confer the following additional degrees:—Lit.D., B.Sc., M.Sc., D.Sc., Bachelor of Music, Master of Music, Doctor of Music.

The University is aided by a Government grant, and its revenue is supplemented by endowment, etc. The Council consists of 33 members.

In 1905 the number of students who matriculated was 539; 121 passed the intermediate examination, and 59 took direct degrees.

In connection with the University, school examinations are held annually, 23,024 candidates have passed the elementary, and 10,074 the higher examination during the years 1875-1905.

Sea and Land Communications.

The packets of the Union-Castle Mail Steamship Company, under contract with the Colonial Government, leave England weekly on Saturdays, and the Cape (Table Bay) on Wednesdays, the passage to be effected in 16 days 15 hours, and in 17 days 9 hours when the steamer is required to touch at St. Helena and Ascension. The distance by sea from England to the Cape varies from 5,866 to 6,146 miles, according to the course followed. The mail packets call at Madeira on the outward and homeward voyages. The St. Helena-Ascension service is performed by the intermediate steamers of the company, under agreement with the Imperial Post Office.

A mail train leaves Cape Town three times weekly at 8.30 p.m. for Mafeking, and one at 8.30 p.m. daily, for the Orange River Colony, Transvaal, and Natal, and is extended twice a week to Rhodesia.

In addition to this, a weekly fast mail train leaves Cape Town for Rhodesia on Wednesdays at 11.30 a.m., arriving at Bulawayo on Saturdays at 8.30 a.m. and Victoria Falls 7.0 a.m. Sundays.

A limited mail train leaves Cape Town at 11.30 a.m. daily for the Transvaal, via Kimberley, reaching Johannesburg in 46 hours 55 minutes.

In the opposite direction, a limited mail train is run from the foregoing, reaching Cape Town at 2.5 p.m. on Wednesdays to connect with the outgoing steamer.

On Tuesdays a train conveying mails only is despatched from the docks to all parts of South Africa with the European mails brought by the incoming mail steamer.

The mail steamers leave Table Bay weekly for Natal, calling at Port Elizabeth and East London, to land and embark passengers, while a weekly service to Port Elizabeth, East London, and Durban, and a fortnightly service to Mossel Bay, is also maintained by the intermediate steamers of the Union-Castle Company. The passage to Port Elizabeth takes two days, to East London three, and to Natal four to five.

A frequent but somewhat irregular service from Cape Town to the Australasian Colonies is maintained by the steamers of the Shaw, Savill, and Albion Company, the New Zealand Shipping Company, the Aberdeen Line, Lund’s Blue Anchor Line, the White Star Line, and the German-Australian Steamship Company.

Communication is effected between Cape Town and the chief inland towns daily; with Natal daily, via the Transvaal; with the Orange River Colony daily; with Rhodesia (Mashonaland, &c.) twice a week; and with the Transvaal daily by rail through the Orange River Colony. The latter is the direct route to the Transvaal, and the journey from Cape Town is performed in little more than two days.

Transit between England and Johannesburg and Pretoria by this route is, therefore, about 19 days.

Overland communication is effected by rail between Cape Town and Delagoa Bay daily, through the Orange River Colony and the Transvaal. The journey is performed in four days.

The number of Colonial post offices is 1,043, and of money order offices, 349. The expenditure on the postal service amounted to £456,171l. in 1905, the revenue was £423,056l., and the commission on money orders, £25,104l.

Post Office savings banks were established in 1884. On 31st December, 1905, there was a sum of £2,768,339l. deposited to the credit of 98,387 depositors. The interest allowed is 3 per cent. on deposits and 3½ per cent. on certificates. Number of branches, 349.

The telegraph system is well developed, there being now 30,998 miles of telegraph wire, and 5,694 miles of telephone wire open, erected by the Government at a cost of £83,434l., the gross earnings in 1905 being £206,842l., and the expenditure £272,863l. Number of telegraph offices, 558.

The Colony is in telegraphic communication with Europe, via Loanda and Bathurst, and via St. Helena, Ascension, and St. Vincent, by the Western route, and via Natal, by the Zanzibar and Aden cable, and with Australia, via Durban, Mauritius and Cocos.

The weights and measures in use are British; besides which there are the morgen=2½ acres, the Cape foot=1'03 feet, and the Cape ton=2,000 lbs.

Population and Chief Towns.

At the census of 1904 the total population of the Colony was found to be 2,409,804, comprising 1,218,940 males, and 1,190,864 females. The population according to race was: Europeans, 579,741; Malays, 15,682; Hottentots, 91,260; Fingoes, 310,720; Kaffirs, 1,114,067; and other coloured persons, 298,334.

Cape Town, which had in 1891 a population of 51,261, had at the census a population of 77,668,
and with its suburbs, connected by rail and tramway, 169,641, as compared with 78,866 in 1891. The Cape division, which includes Cape Town, had, in 1865, a population of 50,064; in 1875, 57,319; in 1891, 97,288; and, in 1904, 213,167, of which 120,475 were Europeans or white.

The population of the other principal towns was: Kimberley, 34,331; Port Elizabeth, 32,959; Beaconfield, 9,378; Grahamstown, 13,887; Paarl, 11,293; King William's Town, 9,506; East London, 25,220; Graaff Reinet, 10,083; Worcester, 7,885; Uitenhage, 12,193; Cradock, 7,762; Oudtshoorn, 8,849; Queenstown, 9,616; Stellenbosch, 4,969; and Somerset East, 5,216.

The following is a brief abstract of the 1904 census returns:

The number of persons of European descent has been estimated as follows:—Dutch and French origin, 230,000; English, Scotch, Irish, etc., 130,000; other Europeans, 16,000.

The European, or white, then, represents one-quarter, and the coloured races three-quarters of the total population of the whole Colony, whereof one-fifth is urban. The proportion of females is now 97·70 to every 100 males of the total population, and the average number of persons to the square mile was 8·70. The number of inhabited dwellings was 455,999, of which 434 were not intended for dwelling-houses, though used as such.

Birthplaces.—2,274,130 persons had Africa for a birthplace, 118,377 Europe, 10,387 Asia, 3,011 America, 3,654 Australasia, 118 were born at sea, and the birthplaces of 127 were unknown or unspecified. 98·38 per cent. of the population are British subjects by birth.

Religions.—Protestants numbered 1,306,453; Catholics, 38,118; Jews, 19,537; Mohammedans, 22,623; other sects, 4,297; no religion, 1,016,255; unspecified, 3,286; and 235 persons objected to state their religion. Protestants may be divided as follows:—Dutch Reformed Church, 399,487; Gereformeerde Kerk, 6,209; English Church, 281,433; Presbyterians, 88,660; Congregationalists, 112,202; Methodists, 290,264; Lutherans, 80,902; Baptists, 14,105; other Protestants, 32,191.

Ages.

999,829 persons were between 0 to 14 years.
984,399 " 15 to 39 "
268,735 " 40 to 54 "
110,355 " 55 to 69 "
45,507 " 70 years and over.
979 " unspecified.

Education.—The degrees of education possessed were as follows:

Read and Write.

Total . . 621,037—332,594 males; 288,443 females.
European 434,827—241,343 ,, 193,484 ,, 

Read only.

Total . . 45,897—23,517 males; 22,380 females.
European . 10,338— 5,788 ,, 4,550 ,, 

Neither Read nor Write.

Total . . 1,735,491—859,716 males; 875,775 females.
European 133,569— 70,800 ,, 62,769 ,, 

Unspecified.

Total . . 7,379—3,113 males; 4,266 females.
European . 1,007— 613 ,, 394 ,, 

The percentage of Europeans 0-14 years and 15 years and over, according to the different degrees of education, were as follows:

| Degree of Education | 0-14 Years | 15 Years and over |
|---------------------|------------|------------------|
|                     | Males      | Females          | Males      | Females          |
| Read and Write      | 38·24      | 40·10            | 94·48      | 96·22            |
| Read only           | 3·67       | 3·17             | 0·89       | 0·81             |
| Neither Read nor Write | 57·72    | 56·47            | 4·53       | 2·89             |
| Unspecified         | 0·37       | 0·26             | 0·10       | 0·08             |
| Total               | 100·00     | 100·00           | 100·00     | 100·00           |

Conjugal Condition.—A brief abstract of the return follows:

| Total | European |
|-------|----------|
|       | Males    | Females | Males    | Females |
| Married | 352,828 | 385,735 | 96,745 | 87,285 |
| Widowed | 20,396 | 85,911 | 5,904 | 13,109 |
| Single | 842,911 | 714,383 | 215,516 | 160,551 |
| Divorced | 1,304 | 3,851 | 233 | 204 |
| Unspecified | 1,501 | 984 | 146 | 48 |

Occupations.

| Class | Total all Races | European or White |
|-------|-----------------|-------------------|
|       | Males | Females | Males | Females |
| Professional | 29,100 | 9,211 | 24,611 | 7,591 |
| Domestic | 17,195 | 261,575 | 4,633 | 94,636 |
| Commercial | 65,812 | 3,463 | 43,650 | 3,100 |
| Agricultural | 524,228 | 485,246 | 72,802 | 38,373 |
| Industrial | 168,860 | 9,029 | 61,080 | 6,198 |
| Indefinite | 3,342 | 5,955 | 2,609 | 3,418 |
| Dependant | 407,311 | 414,407 | 107,842 | 107,140 |
| Unspecified | 3,092 | 1,978 | 1,317 | 691 |

Sickness and Infirmities.—13,844 persons (8,185 males and 5,659 females) were returned as disabled by sickness or accident, and 15,077 (9,528 males and 5,549 females) as afflicted by infirmities, 2,802 being blind, 1,016 deaf and dumb, 829 idiotic, 2,190 lunatic, 579 epileptic, 1,198 paralytic, 1,230 leprous, 5,233 maimed, lamed and deformed.

The population of Bechuanaland, as ascertained at the census of 1904, was: Europeans, 9,368; Malays, 28; Hottentots, 3,331; Fingoes, 1,265; Kaffirs and Bechuana, 64,204; mixed and others, 6,276.

The population of Pondoland at the Census of 1904 was 1,113 Europeans, 3 Malays, 130 Hottentots, 13,067 Fingoes, 187,442 Kaffirs and Bechuana, and 1,002 mixed and others.

In the Colony proper the European birth rate in 1904 was computed to be 31·81 per 1,000, the Coloured rate at 30·77. The death rate amongst Europeans was 12·61 per 1,000, and the Coloured rate 25·42, during the same year.
Constitution.

The Government of the Cape from 1806 to 1835 was administered by a Governor, aided by a few Executive Officers; but in that year an Executive Council and a Legislative Council, appointed by the Crown, comprising certain office-holders and some unofficial members, were created.

By Letters Patent, dated 23rd May, 1850, the Governor and Council were empowered to enact Ordinances for the establishment of a Representative Government; three years later, that form of Government was brought into force. By an Act of the Colonial Legislature passed in the session of 1872, the introduction of the system of Responsible Government, that is the conduct of the Executive Government by the advice of Ministers responsible to the Local Parliament, was pronounced advisable, and the Royal Assent to the measure was given by an Order in Council dated the 9th August, 1872. The first Ministry under Responsible Government was formed in November, 1872.

There is a Legislative Council of 26 elected Members, presided over, ex officio, by the Chief Justice, and a House of Assembly of 107 elected Members, representing the country districts and towns of the Colony, including the Transkeian territories. The Colonial Ministers are the Prime Minister, the Colonial Secretary, the Treasurer, the Attorney-General, the Commissioner of Public Works, and the Secretary for Agriculture, all of whom are Members of the Legislature and also have seats in the Executive Council, of which the Governor is President. The session lasts usually from March to June.

Act No. 18 of 1874 provided for the division of the Colony into seven electoral provinces, each electing three members for the Legislative Council for seven years. Under the Griqualand West Annexation Act, 39 of 1877, a member is added to the Council for that Province, and one has been since added for Bechuanaland (Act No. 41 of 1895). Under the Additional Parliamentary Representation Act of 1904 an additional member is added to the Council for the Western, South-Eastern and Eastern Electoral Provinces respectively, who are thus now entitled to return 4 members each, and 12 new members were added to the House of Assembly. The qualification for Members is possession of immovable property of £2,000, or movable property worth £4,000. With the exception of paid office-holders (other than the Ministers), and others specified in the Order in Council, any person may be elected a Member of Assembly. For the purpose of the House of Assembly elections the Colony is divided into 46 electoral divisions. Members of both Houses are elected by the same voters, who are qualified (see Ballot and Franchise Act of 1892) by possession of property worth £5l. or receipt of salary or wages of not less than 50l. per annum; but no one can be newly registered as a voter unless he can sign his name and write his address and occupation. The number of registered electors in 1905 was 142,939. The Registration Act, No. 14 of 1887, makes a better provision for the machinery of registration and for the exclusion of unqualified persons, especially those whose only qualification is a share in tribal occupancy, and further provision in the direction of improved machinery is made in the Parliamentary Representation Act, No. 19 of 1898, the Registration of Parliamentary Voters Amendment Act No. 48 of 1899, and in the Parliamentary Indemnity Act, No. 5 of 1902.

Elections are now conducted under the Ballot Act, as amended by Act No. 48 of 1899. Members of either House are paid one guinea per day, with 1s. per day extra for not more than 90 days if residing over 15 miles from Capetown. Speeches may be made either in English or in Dutch (Law No. 1 of 1882).

By an Act, No. 5 of 1875, the Ecclesiastical Endowments provided by the Civil List Ordinance of 1852 were abolished prospectively, the life interests of incumbents being respected.

The Supreme Court, as consolidated by Act 35 of 1896, consists of one Chief Justice and eight Puise Judges; three of whom are assigned to the Court of the Eastern Districts, and three to the High Court of Griqualand. Within the jurisdiction of the Court of the Eastern Districts fall the territories known as Transkei, Griqualand, Pondoland and Tembuland.

The Judges of the "Supreme Court" hold sessions in Cape Town, and Circuit Courts in the Western Districts; the Judges of "The Eastern Districts Court," hold sessions in Grahamstown, and Circuit Courts in the principal towns of the Eastern Districts, and Transkei, and the Judges of the High Court hold sessions at Kimberley.

The Roman-Dutch Law prevails in the Colony, as modified by Colonial Legislation. A "Native Territories Penal Code" came into operation for the Transkei, Griqualand East, Tembuland, and Port St. John's on 1st January, 1887.

By Act No. 3 of 1890, the Supreme Court has been constituted a Court of Appeal under the Africa Order in Council of 1889, and a similar arrangement exists for Rhodesia.

Local Government.

Divisional Councils were first established in the year 1855; they then exercised authority over branch roads only, and performed certain functions in connection with district schools, pounds and Crown lands. They have now been relieved of all duties in regard to schools and lands, but with these exceptions their powers and functions have been gradually increased and amplified. The councils are elected triennially, and consist of eight elective members, exclusive of the Civil Commissioner, who is usually also Resident Magistrate, as chairman, excepting in the Cape Division, which returns ten members. The electors are the registered parliamentary voters, and the qualifications of members are registration as voters and registered ownership of immovable property in the division valued at not less than £500. The maintenance of all roads now rests with the councils, and they also have important duties to discharge in regard to disputed land boundaries and beacons; can nominate Field Cornets; may borrow money on the security of rates for the prosecution of local public works; may promote the establishment of a Divisional Police Force on payment to Government of one-third of the cost of such force; and return three members annually to the District Licensing Court. The revenue of these councils is derived from toll fees, pound sales, and road rates. They were 78 in number in 1906, and their receipts during the year 1905 for those then existing amounted to £273,543. Payments for the same period amounted to £243,241. The accounts are subject to audit by two auditors elected triennially by the registered voters of the division, and also to a final audit by the Controller and Auditor-General of the Colony.
Municipalities were first established by an Ordinance in 1836. In 1882 an Act was passed consolidating and amending all laws then existing in regard to these boards. Every municipality is governed by a council, composed of a mayor or chairman, and councillors, numbering not less than 6 nor more than 24, a certain number of whom are elected annually by the ratepayers. Certain municipalities are under special Acts, but all Town Councils or municipalities under the General Municipal Act, 1882, have power to levy annually a landlord's or owner's rate, assessed upon the value of rateable property, and a tenant's rate assessed upon the annual value of such property; no rate to exceed 2d. in the £ on the value, or 8d. in the £ on the annual value.

All mayors or chairmen are members of District Licensing Courts. There were 118 municipalities in the Colony, the receipts from all sources during the year 1905 for the municipalities then in existence, and excluding seven municipalities from which no returns were received, amounted to 1,752,105l., which includes 452,593l. loans raised. Payments during the same period amounted to 2,060,254l. The Controller and Auditor-General has no general control over municipal accounts.

Village management boards, of which there are 85 in the Colony, exist chiefly in hamlets which are not entrusted with full municipal privileges. The Act of 1881, under which these boards were established, may be proclaimed to be in force upon petition of the inhabitants. There are 3 or 5 members elected annually by the voters registered for Parliamentary purposes, resident within the area defined by proclamation. These boards have no power to levy rates; this is done for them by the divisional council at their request, to an amount not exceeding 3d. in the £ within the limits of the village boards' jurisdiction. The powers and duties of these boards are of the same nature as, although in most respects more restricted than, those of municipalities. Their revenues amounted in 1904-5 to 10,221l., including balances.

Defence.

There is an extensive Admiralty establishment and several forts at Simon's Bay, and to defend this Naval station an Imperial garrison is stationed at Cape Town and Wynberg. The defence of the Colony from native attacks, however, devolves since 1871 upon Colonial forces. These now consist of the Cape Mounted Riflemen (698 strong) and the Cape Mounted Police (1,718 strong), liable in an emergency, which are permanently embodied and paid. There are also 71 Volunteer Corps, and Cadet Corps, of all arms, numbering 9,887 men (with 18 guns), maintained by a capitulation grant. Table Bay has been strongly fortified at the joint expense of the War Office and the Colonial Government.

Dependent Territories.

Basutoland, which formed a portion of the Cape Colony from August, 1871, down to 1884, is now an independent territory, administered by a Resident Commissioner under the instructions of His Majesty's High Commissioner in South Africa. Accounts of Basutoland, as well as of the Bechuanaland Protectorate, which is in nearly the same political position, will be found under the heading of South Africa.

The Northern Border.—Early in 1878, while the war with the Amaxosa was being carried on, a number of Koranas, Griquas, Kaffirs, and others living along the Orange River, took up arms against the Colony, their object being simply plunder. It was difficult to move a military force to such a remote quarter, and it was more than a year before the insurrection could be suppressed. A magistrate with a body of police, was then stationed at Upington, on the northern bank of the Orange. Since this date there have been no further disturbances. The northern border establishment was broken up, and the Special Commissioner recalled, on 30th June, 1888. The territory now forms the "Gordonia" district of British Bechuanaland, now annexed to Cape Colony (see below).

Fingoland, Idutywa Reserve, and Noman's Land, as explained in Par. 1 of this Article, were annexed to the Cape in October, 1879.

In 1877 the Gcalekas, a tribe residing beyond the Kei, under Kreli, one of the leaders of the great Kaffir war of 1850-53, defied the authority of the British Government and invaded what is now British territory. They were, however, defeated by the Colonial forces under the immediate leadership of Col. C. D. Griffith, C.M.G., then Commandant of the Frontier Armed and Mounted Police. Their territory was overrun, and Kreli deposed, and his country taken as British in October, 1877.

In 1875-76 the Tembus, of Tembuland proper, gave themselves over to the Government, and in 1878 the Bomvanas did the same.

While giving effect to the desire of these tribes to come under the Cape Government, it was also arranged to include in the same scheme of incorporation Gcalekaland and a settlement of native British subjects called the Emigrant Tembus.

They are governed by officials paid by the Cape Government, and under its supervision.

The above-named territories, viz., Tembuland, Emigrant Tembuland, Bomvanaland, and Gcalekaland, were formally proclaimed British territory in November, 1881, and in 1885 they were annexed to the Cape Colony.

In 1885, the Chief Kreli requested to be placed on the same footing as the others, and was located in Bomvanaland, on a tract of land purchased from the Chief of the Bomvanas. Palir, chief of the Ametshezi, who had previously been living in practical independence in Lower Tembuland, formally tendered his submission to Colonial rule in 1886, and he and his people were registered in the same manner as the Tembus.

The PondoMisi tribe, under the chiefs Umditshwa and Umhlonhlo, and some of the most powerful clans, allied with the Tembu tribe, took up arms against the Colony at the outbreak of the Basuto Rebellion. The Tembus proper aided the Colony. The insurrection was suppressed, and a re-settlement of the lands previously occupied by the insurgents effected, by which greater security in the future is promised.

The Cape Colony customs dues are levied at St. John's River mouth, under a Proclamation dated 2nd August, 1881. The port was annexed to the Colony in 1884.

Under a Proclamation of Sir Bartle Frere, dated the 4th September, 1878, Umgikela, for breach of treaty arrangements, ceased to be recognised as paramount chief of the Pondo, and the sovereignty of the port and estuary of St. John's River was vested in Her Majesty's Government. A Resident was appointed to represent the
Government with Umqikela, who remained Chief of East Pondoland. Umqikela died in October, 1887, and in February, 1888, his son Sigcau was elected to succeed him. A Resident Commissioner in Pondoland was appointed on 6th July, 1888.

In March, 1894, in consequence of the failure of Sigcau and Nqwiliso to put a stop to the cruelties and malaria prevailing in Pondoland, they were required to submit to Colonial rule, and magistrates were placed in the country. By Act of the Cape Parliament, No. 5 of 1894, the whole country was annexed to the Colony.

West Pondoland was, until the date of annexation, under the Chief Nqwiliso. A small strip of his territory at the mouth of the St. John's River was acquired by the Cape Government for £1,000.

The district of Mount Ayilif, or the Xesibe country, after having long been administered as a dependency of Griqualand East, was formally annexed to the Colony in October, 1886, and the Rode Valley in October, 1887.

The whole of these territories are now subject to Colonial rule, and had a revenue of £171,153 in 1903-4. All of this is included in the ordinary Colonial revenue.

They are now re-grouped under one Chief Magistrate, Col. W. E. Stanford, C.M.G., C.B., who also holds office as Secretary to the Native Affairs Department, being stationed at Cape Town, and is assisted locally by Assistant Chief Magistrates at Umtata and Kokstad respectively.

Griqualand East has nine subordinate magistrates. Its population at the Census of 1904 was—Europeans, 5,901; Bantu, 212,069; mixed, 4,062.

Tembuland, comprising Tembuland proper, Bomvanaland, Emigrant Tembuland, and East and West Pondoland, has fourteen subordinate magistrates. It has a population of—Europeans, 8,056; Bantu, 221,313; mixed, 1,327.

Transkei, comprising Fingoland, the Idutywa Reserve, Gcalekaland, has six subordinate magistrates. It has a population of—Europeans, 1,707; Bantu, 175,682; mixed, 197.

BRITISH BECHUANALAND.—On the 30th of September, 1885, the territories south of the Molopo river and of the Ramathlaba spruit were declared to be British territory under the name of British Bechuanaland, and a commission was issued to the Governor of the Cape to be its Governor, with power to legislate by proclamation. The territory was annexed to the Cape Colony on the 16th of November, 1895.

Statistics and Trade.

| Year (ended 30th June) | Revenue, Actual. | Expenditure, Votes. | British Tonnage. | Total Tonnage. |
|------------------------|----------------|-------------------|-----------------|---------------|
| 1896                   | 6,803,802       | 5,651,325         | 11,433,875      | 12,041,714    |
| 1897                   | 7,389,965       | 6,852,385         | 12,137,192      | 12,853,405    |
| 1898                   | 6,530,475       | 7,082,255         | 12,553,291      | 13,427,354    |
| 1899                   | 6,517,574       | 6,803,041         | 13,887,758      | 14,971,037    |
| 1900                   | 6,326,274       | 6,677,651         | 17,314,244      | 18,672,736    |
| 1901                   | 7,957,499       | 7,990,161         | 17,318,681      | 18,899,833    |
| 1902                   | 9,050,371       | 8,617,626         | 20,416,975      | 22,584,591    |
| 1903                   | 11,701,150      | 11,197,970        | 23,920,340      | 21,632,111    |
| 1904                   | 9,913,855       | 10,862,866        | 19,678,617      | 22,174,003    |
| 1905                   | 8,472,302       | 9,149,497         | 19,952,264      | 22,518,286    |

Public Debt, 31st December, 1905.

Debt of General Government . . . £36,820,385
Debt of Corporate Bodies (under guarantee). . . . . . . . . . 5,289,177

Imports.

| Year | From U.K. | From Colonies. | From Elsewhere. | Total. |
|------|-----------|----------------|-----------------|-------|
| 1896 | 12,807,332| 811,171         | 4,316,536       | 17,936,039 |
| 1897 | 12,283,927| 883,233         | 4,209,374       | 17,931,878 |
| 1898 | 11,443,178| 1,048,116       | 4,130,050       | 16,621,354 |
| 1899 | 9,911,503 | 1,447,962       | 4,011,506       | 15,370,971 |
| 1900 | 11,052,428| 2,477,692       | 3,631,691       | 17,161,811 |
| 1901 | 13,802,877| 3,245,776       | 4,367,507       | 21,416,160 |
| 1902 | 20,994,095| 3,273,541       | 7,841,969       | 32,109,605 |
| 1903 | 21,510,474| 2,423,941       | 9,827,410       | 33,761,831 |
| 1904 | 14,019,101| 2,725,237       | 5,079,971       | 21,824,309 |
| 1905 | 12,156,737| 3,551,863       | 4,052,370       | 19,760,970 |

Exports.

| Year | To U.K. | To Colonies. | To Elsewhere. | Total. |
|------|---------|--------------|---------------|-------|
| 1896 | 16,404,464| 86,636       | 460,738       | 16,951,838 |
| 1897 | 19,019,161| 83,344       | 333,799       | 19,436,304 |
| 1898 | 23,969,425| 113,080      | 340,908       | 24,423,413 |
| 1899 | 22,647,719| 187,994      | 411,545       | 23,247,238 |
| 1900 | 6,854,175 | 238,047      | 544,460       | 7,646,682 |
| 1901 | 9,934,950 | 263,702      | 521,127       | 10,717,779 |
| 1902 | 15,531,477| 224,748      | 625,054       | 16,381,279 |
| 1903 | 21,723,715| 209,674      | 568,893       | 22,502,282 |
| 1904 | 25,267,684| 187,552      | 1,113,646     | 26,568,882 |
| 1905 | 31,810,258| 109,393      | 1,849,565     | 33,769,216 |

List of Governors since 1877.

1877 Sir H. Bartle E. Frere, Bart., G.C.B., G.C.S.I.
1880 Major-General Sir H. H. Clifford, V.C., K.C.M.G., C.B. (Administrator).
1880 Major Sir G. C. Strahan, K.C.M.G. (Administrator).
1881 Sir H. G. R. Robinson, G.C.M.G.
1882 Lieut.-Gen. Hon. Sir Leicester Smyth, K.C.M.G., C.B. (Administrator).
1883 The Rt. Hon. Sir H. G. R. Robinson, G.C.M.G.
1886 Lieut.-Gen. Sir H. D'O. Torrens, K.C.B. (Administrator).
1887 The Rt. Hon. Sir H. G. R. Robinson, G.C.M.G.
1889 Lieut.-Gen. H. A. Smyth (Administrator).
1889 Sir H. Brougham Loch, G.C.B., G.C.M.G.
1891 Lieut.-Gen. W. G. Cameron, C.B. (Administrator).
1891 Sir H. B. Loch, G.C.B., G.C.M.G.
1892 Lieut.-Gen. W. G. Cameron, C.B. (Administrator).
1892 Sir H. B. Loch, G.C.B., G.C.M.G.
1894 General Sir W. G. Cameron, K.C.B. (Administrator).
1894 Sir H. B. Loch, G.C.B., G.C.M.G. (afterwards Lord Loch).
1895 Lieut.-Gen. W. H. Goodenough, C.B. (Administrator).
1895 The Rt. Hon. Sir H. G. R. Robinson, Bt., G.C.M.G. (afterwards Lord Rosemead).
1897 Sir Alfred Milner, G.C.B., G.C.M.G.
1901 The Hon. Sir Walter Francis Hely-Hutchinson, G.C.M.G.
Ministries since 1878.

| Name of Premier | Date |
|-----------------|------|
| J. Gordon Sprigg | 6th February, 1878 |
| Sir Thomas Scanlen, K.C.M.G. | 9th May, 1891 |
| Thomas Upington | 10th May, 1884 |
| Sir J. Gordon Sprigg, K.C.M.G. | 25th Nov., 1896 |
| The Hon. C. J. Rhodes | 17th July, 1890 |
| The Rt. Hon. C. J. Rhodes | 4th May, 1893 |
| The Rt. Hon. Sir J. Gordon Sprigg, K.C.M.G. | January, 1896 |
| The Hon. Wm. Philip Schreiner, K.C., C.M.G. | 14th October, 1898 |
| The Rt. Hon. Sir J. Gordon Sprigg | 18th June, 1900 |
| The Hon. Dr. L.S. Jameson, C.B. | 22nd Feb., 1904 |

THE EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.

Governor.
His Excellency the Hon. Sir Walter Francis Hely-Hutchinson, G.C.M.G. (Commission dated February 9th, 1901. Assumed Office March 9th, 1901).

Members who are in the Ministry.
22nd February, 1904.

The Hon. Leander Starr Jameson, C.B., M.L.A., Prime Minister. 22nd February, 1904.
The Hon. Dr. Thomas William Smartt, M.L.A., Commissioner of Public Works. 19th May, 1898.
The Hon. Colonel Charles Preston Crewe, C.B., M.L.A., Colonial Secretary. 22nd February, 1904.
The Hon. Edgar Harris Walton, M.L.A., Treasurer. 22nd February, 1904.
The Hon. Victor Sampson, K.C., M.L.A., Attorney-General. 22nd February, 1904.
The Hon. Arthur John Fuller, M.L.A., Secretary for Agriculture. 22nd February, 1904.

Members who are not in the Ministry.

William Downes Griffith. 24th March, 1866.
The Right Hon. Sir John Henry de Villiers, P.C., K.C.M.G. (Chief Justice).
Sir Charles Abercrombie Smith, Kt., M.A. 2nd December, 1872.
John Xavier Merriman. 14th July, 1875.
The Right Hon. Sir John Gordon Sprigg, P.C., G.C.M.G. 6th February, 1878.
James Weston Leonard, K.C. 28th January, 1881.
Sir Thomas Charles Scanlen, K.C.M.G. 9th March, 1881.
Jacobus Wilhelmus Sauer. 9th May, 1881.
John Hendrik Hofmeyr. 9th May, 1881.
Sir Jacobus Albertus de Wet, K.C.M.G. 13th May, 1884.
Sir James Rose-Innes, K.C., K.C.M.G. 17th July, 1890.
Sir James Sivewright, K.C.M.G., M.L.A. 17th July, 1890.
Sir Pieter Hendrik Faure, K.C.M.G., M.L.A. 17th July, 1890.
William Philip Schreiner, K.C., C.M.G. 4th May, 1893.
Sir John Frost, K.C.M.G., C.M.G., M.L.A. 8th May, 1893.
Sir Henry Hubert Juta, Kt., K.C., M.L.A. 28th December, 1893.
Dr. Thomas Nicholas German Te Water. 17th January, 1896.
Thomas Lynedoch Graham, K.C., M.L.C. 13th May, 1898.
Albertus Johannes Herholdt. 14th October, 1898.
Sir Richard Solomon, K.C., K.C.M.G. 14th October, 1898.

Officiating Clerk to the Council, Herbert Gordon Watson.

Legislative Council.

President, Chief Justice The Right Honourable Sir J. H. de Villiers, P.C., K.C.M.G., 500l.
Chairman of Committees, The Hon. William Ross, 100l.
Clerk to Council and Officer in Charge of Books, H. P. Barnett-Clarke, 900l.
Usher of the Black Rod, The Hon. R. P. Botha, 400l.
Assistant Clerk, Shorthand Writer, and Taxing Officer, John Fairbairn, 500l.
Clerk of the Papers and Committee Clerk, M. J. Green, 350l.
Messenger, J. McIntyre.
Assistant Messenger, D. Romans.

Members.

Western Province:
The Hon. August Henry Petersen.
The Hon. James Douglas Logan.
The Hon. Charles William Henry Köhler.
The Hon. Edmund Powell.

North-Western Province:
The Hon. Izaak Jacobus van Zyl.
The Hon. Jacobus Arnoldus Combrinck Graaff.
The Hon. Jacob Nicolaas Pieter de Villiers.

South-Western Province:
The Hon. Herman Johan Dempers.
The Hon. Adam Gabriel de Smidt.
The Hon. Hermanus Christian van Zyl.

Midland Province:
The Hon. Hermanus Johannes Hendrik Claassens.
The Hon. Pieter Daniel de Villiers.
The Hon. Jacobus Francois du Toit.

South-Eastern Province:
The Hon Philippus Salomon Bellingan.
The Hon. Alexander Wilmot.
The Hon. John Pyott.
The Hon. Richard Featherstone Hurndall.

North-Eastern Province:
The Hon. Sir Gysbert Henry Stockenström, Bart.
The Hon. Paul Willem Michau.
The Hon. Michiel Jacobus Pretorius.

Eastern Province:
The Hon. William Rogers.
The Hon. Col. Zachary Stanley Bayly, C.M.G.
The Hon. David Solomon Barrable.
The Hon. Donald Strachan.

Griqualand West:
The Hon. William Ross.

British Bechuanaland:
The Hon. George David Smith.

House of Assembly.

Hon. Sir Bisset Berry, Kt., Speaker, 1,500l.
T. P. Theron, Chairman of Committees, 400l.
E. F. Kilpin, C.M.G., Clerk of the House, 1,200l.
G. R. Hofmeyr, Assistant Clerk, 600l.
C. N. Thomas, Sergeant-at-Arms, 400l.
### Constituencies

| Constituencies          | Members                                                                 |
|-------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Albany                  | William Thomas.                                                        |
|                         | Hon. Victor Sampson, K.C.                                              |
| Albert                  | Andries Stephanus du Plessis.                                          |
| Aliwal North            | Henry Burton.                                                          |
|                         | Hon. Col. Charles Preston Crewe, C.B.                                  |
|                         | Walter Charles Ormond.                                                 |
| Barkly West             | Capt. Arthur Willie Cumming.                                           |
|                         | Col. David Harris, C.M.G.                                              |
| Beaufort West           | Samuel Cron Cronwright Schreiner.                                      |
|                         | Pieter Jacobus Weeber.                                                 |
| Caledon                 | Dr. Anthony Gysbert Viljoen.                                           |
|                         | Christman Joel Krige.                                                  |
| Cape Town               | Thomas Johnson Anderson.                                               |
|                         | John Dean Cartwright.                                                  |
|                         | John Garlick.                                                          |
|                         | Sir William Thorne.                                                    |
|                         | John William Jagger.                                                   |
|                         | Louis Abrahamson.                                                      |
|                         | Capt. Pieter C. van B. Bam.                                            |
| Cathcart                | George Blaine.                                                         |
| Clanwilliam             | Frans Johannes van de Merwe.                                           |
|                         | Dirk Jacobus Albertus van Zyl.                                         |
| Colesberg               | Nicolaas Frederick de Waal.                                            |
|                         | Dirk Johannes Viljoen.                                                 |
| Cradock                 | Mattheus Jacobus du Plessis.                                           |
|                         | Hercules Christian van Heerden.                                        |
| East London             | John Griffin Hellier.                                                  |
|                         | Maj.-Gen. Sir E.Y. Brabant, K.C.B., C.M.G.                            |
|                         | Hon. Dr. Thomas William Smartt.                                        |
| Fort Beaufort           | Bernard Niland.                                                        |
|                         | Augustus Rouviere Adendorff.                                           |
| George                  | Charles Searle.                                                        |
|                         | Hendrik Jacobus Raubenheimer.                                          |
|                         | Henry Latham Currey.                                                   |
|                         | Hon. Jacobus Wilhelmus Sauer.                                          |
| Graaff-Reinet           | Gysbert Henry Maasdorp.                                                |
|                         | Francois Retief Davel.                                                 |
| Graham's Town           | Hon. Dr. Leander Starr Jameson, C.B.                                   |
|                         | Henry Wood.                                                            |
| Griqualand East         | Charles Edward Tod.                                                    |
|                         | Louis Frederick Zieteman.                                              |
| Humansdorp              | Jacobus Michael Rademeyer.                                             |
| Jansenville             | Casper Jacobus Lotter.                                                 |
|                         | Olkert Almero Oosthuisen.                                              |
| Kimberley               | James Lawrence.                                                        |
|                         | Arthur Stead.                                                          |
|                         | Daniel Johannes Haarhoff.                                              |
|                         | Henry Alfred Oliver, C.M.G.                                            |
| King William's Town     | Col. William Joseph Warren, C.M.G.                                     |
|                         | Franz Ginsberg.                                                        |
|                         | George Whitaker.                                                       |

### Constituencies

| Constituencies          | Members                                                                 |
|-------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Mafeking                | John William de Kock.                                                  |
| Malinesbury             | Jacobus Abraham Smute.                                                 |
|                         | Francois Stephanus Malan.                                              |
| Middelburg              | Antoine Charles Auguste van Rooy.                                      |
| Namaqualand             | Hon. Sir Pieter Hendrik Faure, K.C.M.G.                               |
|                         | Francis Oats.                                                          |
| Oudtshoorn              | James Alexander Foster.                                                |
|                         | Hendrik Johannes Mulder.                                               |
|                         | Johannes Hendrik Schoeman.                                             |
| Paarl                   | Dr. Andries Lourens de Jager.                                          |
|                         | Hendrik Stephanus van Zyl.                                             |
|                         | Petrus Johannes Cillie.                                                |
|                         | Michael Johannes de Beor.                                              |
|                         | Hermanus Dempers Stiglingh.                                            |
| Piquetberg              | Port Elizabeth.                                                        |
|                         | Hon. Sir Henry Hubert Juta, K.C.                                      |
|                         | James Searle.                                                          |
|                         | Hon. Edgar Harris Walton.                                             |
|                         | James Wynne.                                                           |
|                         | William McIntosh.                                                      |
| Prieska                 | Redmond Newenham Morris Orpen, C.M.G.                                 |
| Queen's Town            | Hon. Sir John Frost, K.C.M.G.                                          |
|                         | Hon. Sir W. Bisset Berry.                                              |
|                         | Thomas Searle.                                                         |
| Richmond                | Thomas Philippus Theron.                                               |
|                         | Willem Gert Sieberhagen.                                               |
| Riversdale              | Jan Johan Michau.                                                      |
|                         | Jacobus Frederick Badenhorst.                                          |
| Simon's Town            | William Runconian.                                                     |
| Somerset East           | James Tennant Molteno.                                                 |
| Stellenbosch            | Johannes Arnoldus Vosloo.                                              |
|                         | Gideon Johannes Krige.                                                 |
|                         | Johannes Henoch Marais.                                                |
| Swellendam              | Frans Hendrik Badenhorst.                                              |
| Tembuland               | George Sebastian Wolfsaardt.                                           |
|                         | Hon. Arthur John Fuller.                                               |
|                         | Theo. Lyndall Schreiner.                                               |
| Uitenhage               | Henry Eardley Stephen Fremantle.                                       |
|                         | Thomas William Mills.                                                  |
|                         | Dr. Arthur Bayly Vanes.                                               |
| Victoria East           | Henry Collins.                                                         |
|                         | Josiah Slater.                                                         |
| Victoria West           | Hon. John Xavier Merrieman.                                            |
|                         | Peter Gysbert Kuhn.                                                    |
|                         | Walter Rubidge.                                                        |
| Vryburg                 | William Crosbie.                                                       |
|                         | Frank William Powrie.                                                  |
|                         | George Egerton Dugmore.                                                |
|                         | Amos Bailey.                                                           |
|                         | Dr. John Hewat.                                                       |
| Worcester                | William Hare.                                                          |
|                         | Dr. Johannes Hendricus Meiring Beck.                                   |
|                         | Johannes Jacobus Arnoldus Graaff.                                      |
|                         | Dirk de Vos Rabie.                                                     |
| Wynberg                 | Hendrik Cloete, C.M.G.                                                 |
|                         | Dr. Cornelius Pieter Smuts.                                            |
|                         | Edward Spilsbury Steytler.                                             |

### Governor's Establishment

- **Governor**, The Hon. Sir W. Hely-Hutchinson, G.C.M.G., 8,000l.
- **Private Secretary**, Captain W. A. Gordon, 500l.
Col. Aide-de-Camp and Military Secretary, Major A. R. Cameron, 600l.

Extra Aide-de-Camp, Capt. J. T. Lutley, 400l.
Chief Clerk, H. G. Watson, 450l.
Clerk, H. A. Drummond-Hay, 300l.

Department of Prime Minister.

Prime Minister, The Hon. Dr. Leander Starr Jameson, C.B., M.L.A.
Secretary, R. Sothern Holland, 550l.
Clerks, A. H. Harrison, 325l.; E. L. Massey, 200l.
Shorthand Writer and Typist, Miss E. Upington, 132l.

Native Affairs Branch.

Minister, The Hon. Dr. Leander Starr Jameson, C.B., M.L.A.
Secretary to the Native Affairs Department and Chief Magistrate, Transkei Territories, Col. W. E. M. Stanford, C.B., C.M.G., 1,600l.
Assistant Secretary to the Native Affairs Department, E. E. Dower, 600l. and 100l. allowance.
Clerks, E. Barrett, 350l.; S. D. Snooke, 300l.; A. N. Macfadyen, B.A., 300l.; A. A. Culligan, 200l.; A. L. Barrett, 240l.; E. F. Godfrey, 180l.; L. J. Phillip, 135l.; P. A. Linington, 135l.; R. S. B. M. Hickson-Mahony, 135l.

Accounting Branch.

Accounting Officer, E. E. Dower (draws salary as Assistant Secretary).
Accountant, E. W. H. Morris, 500l.
Chief Examiner, W. G. Morris, 325l.
Book-keeper, B. G. Clark, 220l.
Examiners, J. A. E. Cooke, 165l.; H. M. Cameron, 325l. (on leave); T. H. Vlok, 220l. (acting).

Ndabeni Location (Maitland).

A.R.M., J. R. Quinn, 400l., quarters.
Clerk, C. E. Dovey, 150l.
Medical Officer, Dr. J. H. Elmes, 400l.

Division of Barkly West (Klipdam).

Inspector of Native Locations, W. H. Hall, 375l., house allowance, 50l., commuted travelling allowance, 50l., and 6l. office rent.

Division of East London.

Inspector of Locations, W. R. Ellis, 250l., commuted travelling allowance, 50l., and 6l. office rent.

Division of Fort Beaufort.

Inspectors of Native Locations, R. D. Henry, 295l., commuted travelling allowance, 50l.

Division of Glen Grey.

C.C. and R.M., C. R. Chalmers, 550l., and quarters, allowance, 100l.
Clerks, H. G. Eedes, 325l.; A. B. Probart, 180l.; F. C. Pinkerton, 180l.; F. J. Kockott, 165l.
Inspector of Native Locations, Labour Agent, and Collector of Labour Tax, Lady Frere, G. E. Nightingale, 275l., quarters, commuted travelling allowance, 50l., and 15l. allowance as Process Issuer.
Inspector of Native Locations and Collector of Revenue, Bolotwa, H. G. Fynn, 275l., commuted travelling allowance, 50l.

Division of Hay.

Inspector of Native Locations, J. A. Louw, 72l., office rent, 6l.

Division of Herbert.

Inspector of Native Locations, C. E. H. Orpen, 280l., commuted travelling allowance, 50l., and 15l. per annum (office rent).

Division of Herschel.

C.C. and R.M., W. G. W. Wright, 500l. and quarters.
Clerks, E. G. Lonsdale, 300l. and quarters; S. E. Humphreys, 120l.
Inspectors of Locations, Capt. A. G. Turner, D.S.O., 250l., quarters, commuted travelling allowance, 50l.; C. B. Bousfield, 250l., commuted travelling allowance, 50l.

Division of Kimberley.

Chief Registrar of Servants, H. P. Tillard, 550l.; allowances 50l. (travelling), 50l. (local).
Registrars of Servants, S. P. Stephens, 8s. 9d. per day.
E. H. von Plaster, 10s. per day.
C. Barnes, 8s. per day.
F. W. Hyde, 7s. 6d. per day.
Interpreters, G. Sepuru, 140l.; Mkululi Num, 130l.
Protector of Natives, G. W. Barnes, 350l., 50l. house, 50l. local, and 100l. travelling.

Division of King William's Town.

Tamacha.—Special Magistrate and Superintendent of Natives, R. J. Dick, 660l., house allowance 50l., forage allowance, 50l.
Clerks, R. F. Cumming, 425l.; W. N. Seti, 200l.; D. C. Murray, 120l.
Inspectors of Native Locations, O. H. R. Nicholls, 200l., commuted travelling allowance, 50l.; and L. G. H. Tainton, 450l., commuted travelling allowance, 50l.

Division of Komga.

Inspector of Native Locations, J. Hill, 269l., commuted travelling allowance, 50l., and 6l. per annum office rent.

Division of Peddie.

Inspector of Native Locations, J. T. Brent, 280l., commuted travelling allowance, 50l., and 6l. (office rent).

Division of Port Elizabeth.

A.R.M., J. T. A. Verschuur, 400l. and quarters.
Clerk, W. S. Wauchope, 72l., allowance 24l. as Postmaster.
Senior Inspector of Native Reserve Location, W. H. Quirk, 250l. and quarters.
Medical Officer, Dr. A. B. S. Powell, 400l.

Division of Queenstown.

Inspectors of Native Locations, W. C. P. Jones, 305l., commuted travelling allowance, 50l., house 25l.; H. B. B. Roberts, 225l., commuted travelling allowance, 50l.

Division of Victoria East.

Inspector of Native Locations, J. B. Liefeldt, 355l., commuted travelling allowance, 50l.
Division of Wodehouse (Indwe).
Inspector of Native Locations, W. H. M. Nicholls, 200l., and commuted travelling allowance, 50l.

Bechuanaland.
Inspector of Native Locations, Vryburg, T. Dent, 375l., and commuted travelling allowance, 50l.
Inspector of Native Locations, Kuruman, J. P. McCarthy, 265l., and commuted travelling allowance, 50l.
Inspector of Native Locations, Taung, C. J. Dovey, 300l., commuted travelling allowance, 50l., and quarters.
Inspector of Native Locations, Mafeking, C. S. Pringle, 250l., commuted travelling allowance, 50l., 12l. per annum office rent.

Tembuland, &c.
Chief Magistrate, Transkeian Territories, Col. W. E. M. Stanford, C.B., C.M.G. Draws salary as Secretary to the Native Affairs Department.
Asst. Chief Magistrate, Transkeian Territories, A. H. B. Stanford. Draws salary as R.M.
Chief Clerk, W. Carmichael, 300l.
Clerks, B. Henkel, 240l.; G. I. Kenyon, 165l.
R.M., Umtata, A. H. Stanford, 850l., and quarters.
Clerk and Assistant R.M., A. E. Gilfillan, 350l.
Clerks, R. Welsh, 200l.; P. H. B. Payn, 180l.; Capt. G. D. Ward, 280l.
R.M., Engcobo, T. W. C. Norton, 575l. and quarters.
Clerks, C. E. Warner, 425l.; H. G. Rogers, 195l.; E. F. Owen, 165l.
R.M., Elliot, F. W. B. Gilfillan, 450l., and quarters.
Clerk, J. S. Le Roux, 280l.
Assistant Clerk and Interpreter, J. van E. Barry, 150l.
R.M., Mqanduli, H. H. Bunn, 600l., and quarters.
Clerks, W. H. P. Freemantle, 240l.; R. Meaker, 120l.
R.M., Elliottdale (Bomvanaland), C. A. King, 550l., and quarters.
Clerks, D. J. McIntyre, 240l.; E. W. Wilkins, 200l.
R.M., Xalanga, F. C. E. Bell, 650l.
Clerk, G. E. L. Palmer, 400l.
R.M., St. Mark's, Capt. E. J. Whindus, 650l., and quarters.
Clerks, B. E. Cotterell, 300l.; H. D. Lloyd, 260l.

Transkei.
R.M., Ngamakwe, C. J. Warner, 600l., and quarters.
Clerk and Assistant R.M., R. J. Macleod, 300l.
Clerks, M. J. Bradfield, 180l.; N. W. Pringle, 150l.
R.M., Tsomo, L. F. E. Farrant, 550l., and quarters.
Clerks, L. C. Pinkerton, 220l.; E. K. Tanner, 120l.
R.M., Kentani, N. O. Thompson, 650l., and quarters.
Clerk and Assistant R.M., P. S. Laney, 500l.
Clerk, J. N. Froneman, 260l.
R.M., Willowvale, M. W. Liefeldt, 750l., and quarters.
Clerks, F. N. Doran, 280l.; R. S. Dalgety, 135l.
R.M., Butterworth, W. T. Brownlee, 700l., and quarters.
Clerks, E. J. Hargreaves, 400l.; J. E. B. Walker, 300l.; and F. L. Osman, 135l.
R.M., Idutywa, J. P. Cumming, 600l., and quarters.
Clerks and Assistant R.M., D. S. Campbell, 300l.; and S. D. A. P. Garner, 220l.

Pondoland East and West.
R.M., Lusikisiki, T. C. A. Rein, 650l., and quarters.
Clerk and Assistant R.M., H. E. F. White, 300l.
Clerk, J. R. Coulter, 165l.
R.M., Flagstaff, J. M. Young, 450l., and quarters.
Clerk, R. C. Heathcote, 280l.
R.M., Tabankulu, J. F. C. Rein, 550l., and quarters.
Clerk, H. C. S. Garner, 300l.
R.M., Bizana, J. C. Hargreaves, 500l., and quarters.
Clerk, D. F. du Toit, 260l.
R.M., Port St. John's, F. E. H. Guthrie, 500l., and quarters.
Clerk, C. A. Budd, 240l.
R.M., Ngqeleni, J. W. Morris, 650l., and quarters.
Clerks, R. C. E. Klette, 240l.; O. J. Clark, 150l.
R.M., Libode, W. T. Hargreaves, 500l., and quarters.
Clerk, W. F. C. Trollip, 300l.

Griqualand East.
Assistant Chief Magistrate and R.M., Kokstad, R. W. Stanford, 850l., and quarters.
Clerk and Assistant R.M., R. H. Wilson, 325l., and quarters; H. H. Catherine, 240l.; M. H. Barlow, 180l.
R.M., Umzimkulu, O. M. Blakeway, 450l., house allowance, 50l.
Clerk and Assistant R.M., D. F. de Souza, 280l.
Clerk, H. E. Bunn, 180l.
R.M., Mataatile, J. H. Roose, 500l., and quarters.
Clerks, G. M. B. Whitfield, 260l.; J. H. Widdicombe, 180l.
R.M., Mount Frere, W. P. Leary, 650l., and quarters.
Clerk, G. Jeffrey, 325l.
2nd Clerk, C. S. Eckard, 180l.
R.M., Mount Ayliff, A. S. Leary, 500l., and quarters.
Clerk, H. G. Scott, 220l.
R.M., Qumbu, W. J. Vlok, 450l., and quarters.
Clerk, W. C. H. B. Garner, 280l.
2nd Clerk, A. G. Lyne, 180l.
R.M., Maclear, R. L. Shaw, 500l., and 50l. house.
Clerk, J. J. de Witt, 240l.
2nd Clerk, A. J. Wüd, 220l.
R.M., Tsolo, J. A. F. Gladwin, 500l., and quarters.
Clerks, F. S. Heaton, 260l.; (vacant).
R.M., Mount Fletcher, F. H. Brownlee, 450l., and quarters.
Clerks, R. D. H. Barry, 400l.; G. C. C. M. Gladwin, 300l.

Colonial Secretary's Office.
Colonial Secretary, Hon. Col. C. P. Crewe, C.B., 1,500l.
Under Colonial Secretary and Controller of Printing, Noel Janisch, 1,200l.
Assistant Under Colonial Secretary, H. B. Shawe, 800l.
Administrative and Convict Branch.

Chief Clerk, H. Tucker, 650l.
Parliamentary Clerk (Principal Clerk, Administrative Branch), L. T. Thomas, 500l.
Principal Clerk (Convict Branch), C. de Kock, 400l.

Clerks, K. H. A. Brauer, 300l.; H. E. Brimble, 319l.; S. A. Davies, 260l.; A. M. Daniel, 235l.; H. S. Smith, 340l.; A. A. Robb, 220l.; V. L. Joalin, 220l.; A. B. Moore, 180l.; J. R. Hartshorne, 240l.; A. E. C. R. Murray, B.A., 220l.; A. B. Gregory, 180l.; F. E. Caufield, 430l.; J. A. de Korte, 180l.; G. C. Page, 150l.; H. F. Pentez, 150l.

Lady Typists, Miss M. Glynn, 168l.; Miss A. M. Cosnett, 132l.; Miss Hilgen, 100l.

Accounting Branch.

Accounting Officer, A. A. Beck, 600l.
Accountant, A. R. E. Nichol, 450l.
Paymaster, F. M. Haybittel, 450l.
Assistant Accountant, J. Job, 350l.
Bookkeeper, A. W. Dockrall, 270l., 48l. as Clerical Assistant at Sick Hospital.
Pay Clerk, J. C. J. Knobel, 220l.
Clerks, D. G. Roberts, 165l.; H. Pring, 150l.

Local Government and Health Branch.

Medical Officer of Health for the Colony, Dr. A. J. Gregory, 1,200l.
Assistant Medical Officer of Health for the Colony, Dr. J. A. Mitchell, 850l.
Bacteriological Assistant, Dr. G. W. Robertson, 500l.
Relieving Medical Inspector, Dr. J. P. Fenoulhet, 650l.
Chief Clerk, W. G. R. Murray, M.A., 600l., 100l. as Secretary, Colonial Medical Council.
Principal Clerk, H. P. Solomon, 345l.
First Clerk to Medical Officer of Health, C. N. Milliard, 300l.
Clerks, J. S. F. Botha, 400l., 50l. as Assistant Secretary, Colonial Medical Council; G. Chaplin, 375l.; J. P. Jackson, 240l.; P. H. Hoogcard, 150l.; M. C. Hansen, 240l.; G. A. Chisnall, B.A., 220l.; H. K. Jones, 260l.; R. S. Gordon, 240l.; H. C. Bellew, 220l.; J. H. A. Basson, 195l.; H. J. Andrews, 180l.; H. W. Wood, 180l.; W. W. Elliott, 270l.

Shorthand Writer and Typist, W. B. Hilton, 330l.
Lady Typists, Miss A. H. Oakes, 120l.; Miss E. A. Davidson, 120l.

Immigration Branch.

Immigration Officer, C. W. Cousins, 550l.
Clerks, W. v. R. v. Oudtshoorn, 290l.; H. Beynon, 15s. 4d. per day; J. M. Darbey, 270l.; J. H. Lyttle, 15s. per day; J. T. Lambley, 250l. per annum, 25l. ration allowance, 482. quarters.

Statistical Branch.

Registrar-General of Statistics, A. J. Brinton, 550l.
Clerks, A. F. F. Scharffenorth, 305l., and 5l. per month as Clerk in Charge of Records; C. W. Smit, 300l.; W. Titterton, 300l.; P. O'Brien, B.A., 240l.; R. A. Andrews, 220l.; F. H. van Reenen, 220l.; P. J. Orlandini, 195l.; J. H. Alexander, 200l.

Births and Deaths Registration Office.

(Cape Division.)

Deputy Registrar, W. Morgan, 330l.
Assistant Deputy Registrars, W. T. Birch, M.A., 270l.; R. G. Rainier, 265l.

Analytical Branch.

Senior Analyst, C. F. Juritz, M.A., 600l.
Analysts, J. Lewis, M.A., 400l.; St. C. O. Sinclair, M.A., 390l.; J. G. Rose, 375l.; E. V. Flack, 250l.
Analyst, Grahamstown, J. Muller, B.A., 500l.

General Inspectorate.

Inspector of Prisons, R. B. Roper, I.S.O., 950l.
Deputy Inspector of Prisons, R. J. Gill, 475l.
Inspector of Books and Accounts, P. J. Truter, 650l., 50l. per annum as Private Secretary.
Staff Clerk, T. Hogan, 435l.
Acting Inspector of Police and Gaol Stores, J. Veitch, 270l.
Assistant to Inspector of Police and Gaol Stores, L. A. Hardy, 200l.

Miscellaneous.

Keeper of Archives, H. C. V. Leibrandt, 650l.
Storekeeper in Charge of Records, W. P. Coetzee, 210l., 18l. as Storeskeeper.
Chief Government Inspector of Explosives, J. E. Foakes, 1,200l.
Assistant Government Inspector of Explosives, W. B. Jackson, 250l.
Head Messenger, H. Jackson, 240l.

Stationery Branch (Administrative).

Controller of Stationery and Printing, Noel Janisch (Under Colonial Secretary).
Assistant Controller of Stationery and Printing, C. J. Fawcett, 625l.
Clerks, C. H. Phillips, 265l.; S. T. Backwell, 220l.

Stationery Branch (Executive).

Bookkeeper, De C. W. Honeybourne, 320l.
Storekeeper and Stationer, H. A. Allen, 300l.
Assistant Storekeeper, F. A. Burgess, 200l.
Senior Assistant, G. H. Hoets, 295l.

Defence and Police Branch.

Chief Clerk, E. Brande, 550l.
Clerks, A. d'A. Borchers, 295l.; F. H. Fryman, 260l.; P. Kennelly, 280l.; J. W. Ord, 260l.; E. J. Pett, 135l.
Clerk (Peace Preservation Act), J. H. Holland, 250l.
Lady Typist, Miss W. E. Barlow, 120l.

Cape Colonial Forces.

Headquarters, King William's Town.

Commandant-General, Col. H. T. Lukin, C.M.G., D.S.O., 250l.
Staff Officer and Senior S.O. Volunteers, Lt.-Col. R. F. Cantwell, 750l.
Paymaster, C.M.R., Capt. H. H. Gordon, 500l.
Adjutant, Cape Garrison Artillery, Capt. J. C. Hanna, 700l.
Senior Ordnance Officer, Lt.-Col. S. R. Style, 600l., and quarters.
Commandant-General's Staff, King William's Town.

Staff Officer, Capt. J. J. Collyer, 600l.
Chief Clerk, B. M. Bell, 500l.
Clerks, C. S. Coppen, 285l.; L. F. Whitten, 250l.

Volunteer Branch, King William's Town.

Chief Clerk, W. J. Bolton, 500l.
Clerks, L. A. Burnell, 425l.; G. T. Hodge, 200l.; F. W. Hendrickse, 200l.; H. W. Camp, 180l.

Educational Department.

Superintendent-General of Education, Thomas Muir, C.M.G., M.A., LL.D., F.R.S., F.R.S.E., 1,500l.
Secretary, Charles Murray, M.A., 650l.
Clerks, J. D. Coley, B.A., 460l.; F. H. Long, 340l.; W. L. Johnson, 180l.; F. Price, 150l.; S. R. Mackie, 120l.; F. H. Lee, 130l.; C. Kitchin, B.A., 180l.; W. Richmond, 60l.
Statistical Branch, Clerks, P. A. Millard, 450l.; S. Robertson, M.A., 250l.; I. P. Caldwell, B.A., 180l.; D. T. Scholtz, 150l.
Typists, Miss N. D. Barbour, 150l.; C. Tregarthen, 120l.; Miss A. Bosenberg, 120l.; Miss M. L. Richmond, 120l.; Miss M. Mitchell, 120l.; Miss G. Millard, 96l.; N. Ross, 60l.; P. S. Duffett, 120l.; Miss G. Hepburn, 96l.
Authorising Clerk, G. W. Cassé, B.A., 400l.
Acting Accounting Officer, J. Spyker, 650l.
Chief Examiner of Accounts, P. E. Scholtz, 325l.
Examiners of Accounts, D. L. Wahl, 240l.; A. E. Richmond, 135l.; R. N. Pearce, 135l.; M. C. de Villiers, 200l.; D. M. Coley, 60l.
Examining Branch, J. Rodger, M.A., 425l.; T. Hedley, B.A., 330l.
Deputy Inspectors of Schools, E. Noaks, M.A., W. Milne, M.A., F.R.S.E., J. Mitchell, 600l. each; C. E. Z. Watermeyer, B.A. (acting), 500l.; G. P. Theron, B.A., 525l.; Rev. J. McLaren, M.A. 500l.; J. S. Pressly, M.A., 500l.; J. H. Hofmeyr, M.A., 450l.; G. Hagen, M.A., 475l.; T. W. Rein, Ph.D., B.A., 500l.; T. S. Golightly, 525l.; J. G. Tooke, B.A., 450l.; W. G. Bennie, B.A., 500l.; G. J. R. Rein, 360l.; D. Craib, M.A., 550l.; Dr. T. Logie, 475l.; A. G. Macleod, B.A., 500l.; O. J. Satchell, 500l.; W. A. Russell, M.A., 575l.; James Craib, M.A., 500l.; E. J. Spurway, B.A., 425l.; E. Hobden, 400l.; W. Freeman, B.A., 450l.; J. Robertson, M.A., 500l.; J. Young, M.A., 500l.; W. P. Bond, 400l.; G. C. Grant, 450l.; all with 36s. per diem travelling expenses.

Government Medical Establishments.

Old Somerset Hospital.

Surgeon in Charge, J. H. Cox, 300l., house 100l., rations 75l.
Clerk, W. J. Milne, 12s. 6d. per diem.
Stores Issuer, J. H. Musckett, 185l., rations 25l.
Clerk, L. C. Selk, 120l., rations, 25l.

Robben Island Asylum for Lepers, Lunatics, &c.

Commissioner, C. W. Chaubaud, 800l., quarters and eight rations, and 12l. per annum as Official Visitor to Lighthouse.
Senior Medical Officer, E. F. W. Moon, 600l., quarters and four rations.

Assistant Medical Officer, A. S. Chambers, 350l. quarters and two rations.
2nd Assistant Medical Officer, A. Cowper, 350l. per annum, quarters and rations.
Chaplain, Church of England, C. Engleheart, 100l., quarters, two rations and 3s. 4d. per diem as Leper Reader, and 12l. per annum Leper Teacher.
Chaplain, Church of Rome, W. Leeson, 75l.
Chaplain, Dutch Reformed Church, Louis Hugo, 200l., quarters and rations, 7l. per month as Leper Reader, 75l. per annum from the Orange River Colony Government.
Chief Clerk and Accountant, and Superintendent of Convicts, F. A. Smithers, 280l.
Clerk of Asylums, J. T. Taylor, 280l., rations and quarters, and 5s. per month for taking Meteorological Observations.
Clerks, C. A. M. de Vos, 300l.; H. W. Jay, 270l.; M. Harold, 255l.; E. G. de Villiers, 220l.
Clerk of Works, R. Dannott, 350l., rations and quarters.
Storekeeper, J. Howes, 178l., rations and quarters.

Lunatic Asylum, &c., Grahamstown.

Medical Superintendent, T. D. Greenlee, 875l., 100l. rations, fees, and quarters.
Clerk and Storekeeper, A. Hobley, 225l., rations 75l., and quarters.
Assistant Medical Officer, W. L. A. Leslie, 300l., rations and quarters.
Assistant Clerk, A. J. White, 185l., rations 25l., 10s. per month as Organist.
Medical Superintendent, Chronic Sick Wards, J. E. Fitzgerald, 200l. and fees.
Superintendent, Chronic Sick Hospital, C. S. Webb, 290l., two rations and quarters.

Grey Hospital at King William's Town.

Medical Superintendent, Ben Blaine, 550l., rations 50l., quarters and fees.
Clerk, S. J. Smith, 150l., and 25l. ration allowance.

Lunatic Asylum, Port Alfred.

Medical Superintendent, W. H. Atherstone, 550l., quarters 96l., rations 100l.
Clerk and Storekeeper, E. Jordan, 250l., and 75l. in lieu of rations and quarters.
Issuer of Stores, R. S. Jordan, 5s. per diem, 25l. per annum, ration allowance and quarters.
C.E. Chaplain, Rev. H. L. G. Edwards, 25l.
Wes., Rev. W. H. W. Ellison.

Valkenburg Asylum.

Medical Superintendent and Inspector of Lunatic Asylums, W. J. Dodds, 900l., rations 100l., and quarters.
Assistant Medical Officers, R. S. Black, 350l., quarters 100l., rations 50l.; J. A. Gibb, 250l., board, lodging and washing.
Clerk and Storekeeper, E. J. Rigg, 225l. per annum, Luncheon 12l. per annum.

Fort Beaufort Asylum.

Medical Superintendent, Dr. J. Conry, 450l., rations 75l., and quarters.
Clerk and Storekeeper, F. C. L. Vogts, 390l. and quarters.
Assistant Clerk, L. R. Vogts, 120l. and 25l. ration allowance.
Issuer of Stores, A. Henry, 120l., quarters 24l., and rations 25l.
Empanyana Asylum.

Medical Officer in Charge, Dr. C. G. Cassidy, 450l., quarters and three rations.
Dispenser and Clerk of Asylums, J. F. Hampson, 213l., quarters and one ration, and 12l. for keeping Leper Registers, 25l. as Clinical Assistant.
Clerk and Storekeeper, G. M. Thompson, 275l., and 12l. as Supt. of Bakery.

Tokai Convict Station.

Superintendent, H. M. E. Orpen, 550l., 100l. per annum for supervising building operations, and quarters.
Assistant ditto, N. H. M. Cole, 550l., quarters, rations 40l.
Visiting Magistrate, G. B. Williams, 50l., forage allowance 55l.
Medical Officer, B. G. Roscoe, 19s. 3d. per diem, and 2s. 8d. per diem for Porter Reformatory, rations, 40l. as Medical Officer.
Visiting Chaplain, Rev. J. P. de Villeers, 75l., and 75l. for Porter Reformatory.
Visiting Chief Porter, Reformatory, G. J. Willemsen, 84l.
Paymaster and Accountant, J. Bateman, 220l., rations and quarters 60l.

Convict Station, Breakwater.

Superintendent, G. C. S. Foster, 750l., quarters and rations, 75l. allowance.
Accountant and Assistant Superintendent, A. v. de H. de Villiers, 425l. and 40l. in lieu of rations, quarters.
Storekeeper and Deputy Assistant Superintendent,
Clerk, J. Liddy, 220l.
Visiting Medical Officer, H. A. Engelbach, 400l.; cab allowance 40l. and fees, and 200l. from Law Department for visiting Police Stations.
Visiting Chaplain, English, T. Browning, 125l.
" R.C., M. Colgan, 30l.
" D.R., Rev. J. Vlok, 125l. per annum, and 25l. transport.
Assistant Storekeeper, J. F. S. Slate, 225l., and 24l. house allowance.
Visiting Magistrate, C. W. Broers, 75l., cab 25l.
Stores Issuer, C. Kook, 154l. per annum, quarters 30l. per annum, fuel 2l. 10s. per annum.
Assistant Stores Issuer, C. Clements, 140l., as Clinical Assistant 46l.

Sharks' River.

Acting Superintendent, T. Miles, 100l. allowance.
Visiting Magistrate, Charles Bell, 50l.
" Chaplain, P. R. Mollett, 50l.

Klutjie's Kraal.

Superintendent, J. C. van der Byl, 102l., and two rations.
Visiting Magistrate, W. Hare, 40s. per visit; special visits, 40s. each.
Visiting Surgeon, H. P. Payne, 50l.; special visits, 2l. 2s. each.
Visiting Chaplain, Rev. A. Jeffreys, 36l.

East London.

Superintendent, F. Dreyer, 550l., quarters and rations 50l., and forage 60l.
Chief Clerk and Accountant, C. W. Felling, 295l.
Visiting Magistrate, R. B. Howe.
" Chaplain, Rev. A. L. Wright, 50l.
Stores Issuer, H. Bently, 182l.

CAPE MOUNTED RIFLEMEN.

Headquarters, Umtata.

Colonel, H. T. Lukin, C.M.G., D.S.O., 1,000l.
Lieut.-Colonel, R. C. Grant, D.S.O., 700l.
Ditto, R. F. Cantwell (seconded).
Majors, W. H. B. Phillips, 420l. and 30l. allowance; R. B. Stewart, 25s. per diem, 2s. 6d. per diem contingent allowance; J. F. Purcell, D.S.O., 25s. per diem, 2s. 6d. per diem contingent allowance.
Captains, R. N. Cumming, 25s. per diem; G. Curtis, 20s. per diem, 5s. per diem contingent allowance; A. Cosgrove, 20s. per diem, 5s. per diem contingent allowance; J. E. G. Roy, D.S.O. (Gunnery Instructor), 400l. per annum, 5s. per diem allowance.
Lieutenants (24), 15s. to 17s. 6d. per diem.
Major, G. H. Knapp, 500l., Acting P.M.O.
Lieutenant and Adjutant, F. E. Bolton, 292l.

CAPE MOUNTED POLICE.

Commissioner, Colonel M. B. Robinson, C.M.G., 1,100l.

Administrative Branch.

Paymaster, J. B. de Kock, 450l.
Chief Clerk, R. R. Swan, 360l.
Assistant Paymaster, D. Herschell, 260l.
Clerk, L. Gane, B.A., 235l.

Executive Branch.

District Inspectors, A. E. F. Kropf, 600l.; J. N. Neylan, 600l.; J. W. Browne, 600l.; F. A. H. Elliott, 700l.
Inspectors (20), 350l. to 450l.
Sub-Inspectors (53), 275l. to 345l.

MINISTERIAL DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURER.

Treasury.

Treasurer, The Hon. E. H. Walton, 1,500l.
Assistant Treasurer, Accountant-General, Receiver-General and Paymaster-General of the Colony, W. A. Collard, 1,100l.
Chief Clerk and Private Secretary, A. H. Day, 600l., and 50l. allowance as Private Secretary.
Principal Clerk, H. T. Piers, 575l.
Accounting Officer, P. Rainier, 500l.
Assistant Accountants, G. J. Beyers, 500l.; W. H. Friedrichs, 400l.; G. F. Hausmann, 425l.
First Class Clerks, P. G. van Breda, 450l.; F. J. Brand, 390l.; A. E. du Toit, 350l.; W. A. Krige, 330l.; V. Faure, 300l.
Second Class Clerks, R. van Renen, 280l.; E. W. Pemberton, 280l.; I. W. Binckes, 276l.; T. C. Laxton, 240l.; N. C. Leith, 240l.; A. L. Waldron, 240l.; R. G. Coldrey, 240l.; T. Lark, 240l.; J. O. S. Bate, 240l.; E. Whitworth, 220l.; L. E. Dilley, 220l.; E. T. Kilpin, 200l.; D. McAuliffe, 200l.
Third Class Clerks, J. R. E. Chalker, 180l.; P. J. Truter, 180l.; R. T. Faure, 180l.; G. V. R. Muller, 180l.; M. F. Hogan, 180l.; R. N. Wilson, B.A., 180l.; F. S. Herring, 165l.; J. W. Herbert, 165l.; F. A. Friedrichs, 165l.; G. D. During, 165l.; H. M. B. Edye, 165l.; J. P. During, 135l.; C. T. Tunbridge, 135l.; F. M. Allison, 135l.; P. H. Allport, 135l.
Typists, Miss W. M. Solomon, 132l.; B. E. Hurley, 120l.; Miss F. T. Lee, 112l.
Government Actuary, J. McGowan, B.A., F.I.A., 900l.
Departmental Auditor, J. B. Pewtress, F.S.A.A., Lic. Aud. Vic., 700l.
Chief Distributor of Stamps, A. H. Stubbs, 525l.
First Class Clerk, J. B. Long, 325l.
Head Messenger, F. Miller, 280l.

Messengers, E. Nichols, 190l., and 50l. stamping allowance; J. J. Binedell, 135l., and 25l. stamping allowance; G. Thomas, 70l.; E. Footman, 60l.; A. Matheson, 48l.; D. Williams, 48l.

Labourer, W. Lotta, 105l., 12a.

Income Tax Branch.

Commissioner of Taxes, J. B. Moffat, 1,000l.

Deputy Commissioner of Taxes, E. H. Bisset, B.A., LL.B., 600l.

Chief Clerk, H. M. D. Hutchinson, 400l.

Clerks, S. E. Horwood, 300l.; W. L. du Plessis, 165l.; A. D. Wiggett, 165l.

Temporary Clerks, T. Walkden, 10s. per diem; A. W. Thomson, 10s. per diem.

Shorthand Writers and Typists, Miss G. D. Parminter, 132l.; Miss J. Hepburn, 132l.; Miss G. Becker, 132l.

Messenger, F. Twynam, 5l., 10s. per month.

Excise Branch.

Controller of Excise, L. B. Smuts, 800l.

Inspector of Excise, E. A. Thomas, 625l.

Excise Officers, D. F. Martin, 380l. and allowance 50l.; R. M. Orpen, 370l. and allowance 50l.; J. T. Murtagh, 205l.; W. Broadhurst, 205l.; O. Elsdon, 205l.; C. M. V. Cooke, 195l.; J. A. Turnbull, 190l.; H. Skinner, 190l.; W. H. Baker, 180l.; J. Murray, 175l.; J. McLennan, 145l.; F. W. Chapman, 145l.; J. S. Pring, 135l.; S. V. N. Brown, 132l.; T. S. Tilney, 120l.; W. A. Sholtz, 120l.

Clerks, H. H. Short, 375l.; O. Thiel, 350l.; T. R. Dummer, 240l.; C. Chambers, 195l.; C. J. Phelan, 195l.; J. C. Stewart, 180l.; A. G. Milne, 165l.; C. O. Murray, 150l.; L. B. Walker, 150l.; J. H. Green, 150l.; W. J. E. Tonkin, 145l.; W. Readman, 140l.; C. W. Marquard, 120l.; J. A. Kuys, 120l.; O. K. Hall, 84l.; G. K. Taylor, 84l.; J. H. M. Malby, 9s. 6d. per diem.

Temporary Clerks, W. C. Hishon, 195l.; J. McCahon, 120l.

Ledger Clerks, H. Green, 180l.; F. Hall, 135l.

Pay Clerks, R. Coates, 72l.; A. Reynell, 72l.

Messengers, H. M. Whitley, 150l.; A. Boyd, 60l.

Country Stations.

Excise Officers.—East London, A. R. Sale, 168l., travelling allowance 60l., local allowance, 40l.; and P. R. Williams, 150l.

Grahamstown,

Kimberley, A. F. Shaw, 180l., local allowance, 50l.; and C. W. May, 165l., local allowance, 36l.

King Williamstown, G. F. Arthur, 180l. and 96l. travelling allowance.

Oudtshoorn, M. A. Moyle, 195l., and allowance 30l.

Paarl, B. M. Wiggett, 280l.

Port Elizabeth, W. E. Walters 300l.; and I. W. O. Jones, 175l.

Queensstown, W. Harding, 230l.

Worcester, F. A. Eksteen, 300l.; and A. F. Furniss, 175l.

Agent-General's Department in London.

Agent-General, Sir T. E. Fuller, K.C.M.G., 2,000l.

Private Secretary, B. A. Baggs, 100l.

Secretary, T. S. Nightingale, 800l.

Chief Clerk, R. Graham, 300l.

Clerks, A. L. Albrecht, 180l.; T. E. Hellier, 125l.

Clerk and Typist, M. Taylor, 180l.

Clerk and Office-Keeper, J. H. Gabillet, 135l., and Quarters 22l., 10s.

Assistant Clerk and Office-Keeper, W. Franklin, 80l.

Accountant, S. J. T. Platts, 350l.

Shorthand and Record Clerk, J. Stephens, 300l.

Clerks, C. B. T. Bowyer, 275l.; Asst. Accountant; W. H. Tufnell, 180l.; J. P. Horn, 120l.; C. W. F. Heady, 90l.; E. C. Yates, 75l.; L. W. Taylor, 60l.; J. R. Condor, 50l.

Superintendent Stores and Shipping, E. G. Rendell, 700l.

Assistant Superintendent, Stores and Shipping, W. D. Tidd, 400l.

Clerks, E. F. Challenger, 275l.; H. F. G. Sherriff, 200l.; C. H. Gee, 150l.; E. M. P. Bowyer, 135l.; S. T. Mann, 130l.; G. E. Bance, 130l.; R. W. Windus, 100l.

Clerk, Shorthand Writer and Typist, F. J. Bond, 50l.

Clerk and Typist, J. Easton, 100l.

Emigration Agent, H. Erskine, 350l.

Clerks, B. P. Smith, 135l.; S. Nash, 60l.

Inspector at Stump Factory, W. H. Standidge, 150l.

Assistant Inspector at Stamp Factory, A. D. Horn, 75l.

Commercial Agent, Lewis Atkinson, 500l.

Clerk, Commercial Agency, H. Pindar, 15s. per week.

Advising Engineer, J. Mitchell, 600l.

Messengers, J. Manvell, 110l., 10s.; C. T. Gadd, 78l.; H. F. Fuller, 67l., 12s.; I. H. Sponheimer, 54l., 12s.; H. F. Simpson, 52l.; G. Hasley, 13s. per week.

Junior Clerk, F. C. Stent, 55l.

Control and Audit Office.

Controller and Auditor-General, W. E. Gurney, 1,200l.

Assistant Controller and Auditor-General, J. P. Hopkins, 800l.

Inspectors, W. F. L. Beck, 600l., and 50l. re Deputy-Custodian of Stamps; J. S. Stephenson, 550l.; P. Janisch, 525l.; P. E. F. Broers, 500l.; H. A. Spain, 404l.; W. H. Calderwood, 450l.

Accountant, G. F. W. Batho, 475l.

Accounting Officer, W. H. Scott, 425l.

Examiners, G. W. Shaw, 425l.; W. A. Rennie, 415l.; C. F. Schmidt, 380l.; H. A. Rainier, 375l.; J. A. Ashby, 370l.; J. G. Hubball, 365l.; G. A. Perram, 340l.; J. Tennant, 340l.; E. H. W. Muller, B.A., 325l.; C. J. Taylor, 320l.; P. J. van Reenen, 300l.; J. B. Short, 290l.; E. F. Syma, 290l.; W. E. May, 290l.; C. W. Marshall, 280l.; A. D. Kuys, 280l.; E. H. Jones, 275l.; A. W. Sole, 260l.; W. C. McGregor, 260l.; E. N. Simpson, 260l.; W. D. Alston, 260l.; A. M. Reid, 255l.; C. A. F. Cairncross, 255l.; J. P. J. Brunt, 251l.; W. J. T. Parker, 250l.; W. T. P. Coates, 240l.; R. B. Sampson, 240l.; H. L. Parker, 240l.; R. G. Versfeld, 240l.; H. Ziervogel, 240l.; H. G. du Preez, 240l.; H. F. Brink, 235l.; H. B. George, 235l.; D. F. J. Immelman, 220l.; A. Rose-Innes, 220l.; C. W. Murcott, 220l.; G. A. Moore, 220l.; W. F. du Toit, 215l.; C. Stegmann, 215l.; J. S. Deas, 210l.; R. J. Yell, 205l.; T. J. H. van der Byl, 200l.; D. K. Marshall, 200l.; R. F. Marschan, 188l.; W. J. C. R. Miller, 195l.; C. B. Louw, 195l.; R. A. Green, 185l.; A. W. Larkin, 180l.; H. E. Rudd, 180l.; D. Loubser, 180l.; B. L. Geyer, 180l.; G. W. Lightowler, 180l.; G. A. Watson, 175l.; H. W. W. Robertson, 165l.; H. J. Frylinck, 165l.; G. Preston, 165l.; W. E. Carey, 165l.; W. B. Gurney, 150l.; E. Wahl, 150l.; H. W. Mearns, 150l.; T. Hagan, 135l.; H. H. Venables, 135l.; L. G. Richmond, 135l.
Shorthand Writer, Typist, and Record Clerk, I. R. Owens, 250l.
Assistant Record Clerk, J. Thomson, 196l.
Computer, E. R. Riordan, 6s. per diem.
Clerks, H. B. Osler, 135l.; B. F. Louw, 6s. per diem.
Boy Clerks, A. Black, 84l.; N. McKay, 60l.; F. W. Tutton, 4l. per month.

GENERAL POST OFFICE.

Postmaster-General, Sir Somerset R. French, K.C.M.G., 1,300l.
Secretary, W. T. Hoal, 850l.
Assistant Secretary, J. Wilson, 700l.
Chief Clerk, H. Twycross, 625l.
Principal Clerks:
- Telegraph Administration Branch, E. A. Sturman, 625l.
- General Correspondence Branch, W. H. Tiffany, 600l.
- Appointments Branch, T. A. Cockhead, 420l.
- Foreign Mails Branch, M. Buxton Forman, 420l.
- Provincial Post Offices Branch, J. Inch, 500l.
- Inland Mails Branch, R. G. Dexter, 450l.
Accountant, R. Henderson, 650l.
Assistant Accountant, D. Stephen, 600l.
Departmental Auditor and Chief Examiner, J. Fair, 450l.
Cashier, H. F. C. Watermeyer, 450l.
Controller, Savings Bank, J. M. Forbes, 650l.
Assistant Controller, Savings Bank, H. E. Perkins (acting), 430l.
Controller, Money Order Office, J. Naylor, 625l.
Assistant Controller, Money Order Office, J. A. Smith (acting), 450l.
Superintendent, Telegraph Message Branch, A. Mann, 450l.
Controller, Stores Branch, W. P. Herring, 625l.
Chief Engineer and Electrician, J. P. Edwards, 750l.
Chief Clerk, Chief Engineer's Office, A. J. Drakes, 440l.
Chief Technical Officer, B. Bayly, 650l.
Telephone Branch:
- Assistant Engineer, W. Standford, 650l.
- Chief Clerk, A. Grant (acting), 380l.
Surveyors and District Engineers:
- Western District, E. Price, 475l.
- Midland " D. Mackintosh, 625l.
- Eastern " J. F. Smith, 650l.
- Northern " W. Hopkins, 450l.
- Transkei " I. B. Hadaway, 450l.
Circulation Branch:
- Controller, J. Powell, 600l.
- Assistant Controller, C. C. H. Brown, 440l.
Superintendents, F. M. S. Pennell, 360l.; P. Gibson, 360l.
Central Telegraph Office:
- Controller, J. Tasker, 675l.
- Assistant Controller, A. Tregarthen, 515l.
Superintendents, F. W. Hampson, 460l.; J. H. W. Williams, 420l.
Provincial:
- Postmaster, Alivul North, J. Webster, 465l.
- Beaconsfield, R. H. Little, 375l.
- Beaufort West, J. Montgomery, 465l.
- Bedford, M. McIntyre, 340l.
- Burghersdorp, J. Dickinson, 375l.
- Caledon, C. T. Taylor, 375l.
- Claremont, J. F. Steven, 390l.
- Colesberg, W. Pywell, 340l.
- Cookhouse, J. Fernie, 405l.
Postmaster, Cradock, E. Eltringham, 465l.
De Aar, J. Eddy, 365l.
East London, J. H. Waller, 550l.
Fort Beaufort, W. Edwards, 390l.
George, D. A. McIntyre, 440l.
Graaff Reinet, C. J. B. F. Birkett, 430l.
Grahamstown, J. W. Bradley, 530l.
Kimberley, C. A. Bond, 575l.
King William's Town, H. Cuppelditch, 550l.
Kokstad, W. R. Wedderburn, 440l.
Mafeking, H. H. Flowers, 360l.
Malmesbury, W. Pritchett, 340l.
Middelburg, R. Wilkinson, 360l.
Mossel Bay, A. S. Pike, 390l.
Naduwoop, J. Smith, 360l.
Oudtshoorn, W. Fraser, 405l.
Paarl, J. V. Howat, 350l.
Port Elizabeth, J. Henshall, 600l.
Queenstown, E. Surman, 465l.
Rondebosch, T. White, 360l.
Simonstown, R. H. Wood, 420l.
Stellenbosch, N. V. Pearson, 425l.
Sterkstroom, H. D. Cusens, 340l.
Tarkastad, G. H. Williams, 375l.
Uitenhage, W. B. Humphris, 440l.
Umtata, F. Aspinall, 475l.
Vryburg, G. L. Palphramand, 360l.
Worcester, A. McKenzie, 420l.
Wynberg, E. Jones, 440l.

CUSTOMS DEPARTMENT.

Administrative Section.

Controller of Customs and Principal Registrar of Shipping and Accounting Officer, A. H. Wilshire, 1,100l., and 100l. Harbour Board Commissioner.
Chief Clerk, G. Owen-Smith, 575l.
Inspector, and Departmental Auditor of Revenue and Expenditure (acting), F. W. M. Nicholson, 500l.
Assistant Departmental Auditors of Revenue and Expenditure, J. C. Crookart, 260l.; W. H. Impey, 260l.
Accountant and Book-keeper, H. M. Tritton, 600l.
First Class Clerks, J. H. V. Hoets, 450l.; P. E. Kleu, 320l.; E. A. Commaille, 300l.; D. J. Daly, 328l.
Second Class Clerk, M. C. Backwell, 260l.
Third Class Clerks, D. H. Steele, 180l.; F. R. G. Batho, 165l.; D. S. Ross, 150l.
Shorthand Writer and Typist, Miss A. Kotze, 144l.
Examiner of Ships Papers, C. W. McD. Pilkington, 306l.

Executive Section.

Chief Clerk and Warehouse-keeper, J. C. Hoets, 700l.
Principal Customs and Harbour Board Revenue Clerk, I. A. Sampson, 650l.
Second Clerk and Assistant Warehouse-keeper, P. A. Myburgh, 425l.
First Class Clerk, W. T. Anthony, 330l.
Second Class Clerks, B. J. D. Shaw, 280l.; N. H. Giddy, 280l.; C. C. Chase, 280l.; A. Brown, 260l.; C. S. Boyes, 240l.; J. A. Smuts, 240l.
Third Class Clerks, L. C. M. Smith, 180l.; J. P. Wolfaardt, 180l.; A. T. Hibberd, 165l.; W. P. Rattray, 135l.; P. J. Lewis, 135l.
Waterside Branch:
Surveyor of Customs, P. G. M. Borcherds, 686l.
First Class Examining Officers, T. D. Acheson, 450l.; E. G. Orpen, 450l.; R. M. Brien, 425l.; C. H. McLeod, 350l.; W. G. Glennie, 330l.; P. B. Louw, 330l.; J. W. C. de Smidt, 330l.

Second Class Examining Officers, G. R. Hudson, 280l.; D. G. Barry, 260l.; P. E. Faure, 240l.; G. W. Pilkington, 240l.; H. W. V. Ellis, 240l.; J. Loxton, 220l.

Inspector of Baggage and Examining Officer, P. H. Berrange, 500l.

Port Nolloth.

Sub-Collector and Examining Officer, F. Howe-Browne, 200l. (also R.M.).

Clerk and Examining Officer, C. C. Stewart, 165l.

Mossel Bay.

Collector, Warehouse-keeper, and Examining Officer, W. F. Wright, 650l., and 25l. Harbour Board Commissioner.

Clerk and Examining Officers, R. I. Penny, 302l., 10s., and 75l. Secretary Harbour Board.

Third Class Clerk, T. F. Devine, 120l.

Knysna.

Officer of Customs (also C.C. and R.M.), W. L. Philpott, 50l. (also Port Officer).

Third Class Clerk and Examining Officer of Customs, D. E. Horwood, 195l.

Officer at Storms River, G. R. Atkinson, 24l.

Plettenberg Bay.

Officer of Customs, W. Jones, 50l. (also Port Officer).

Port Elizabeth.

Collector of Customs and Registrar of Shipping, G. Hawkins, 800l., and 100l. as Harbour Board Commissioner.

Chief Clerk and Warehouse-keeper, R. J. de Korte, 550l.

Second Clerk, and Assistant Warehouse-keeper, C. R. Morris, 360l.

Second Class Clerks, W. Vaughan, 264l.; H. R. Kirby, 250l.; J. D. Heddon, 225l.; H. M. Rhodes, 220l.; J. F. Linstrom, 215l.

Third Class Clerks, H. C. Smith, 180l.; A. E. Smith, 180l.; W. R. Gilbert, 180l.; C. M. Oettle, 180l.; S. J. Jeffreys, 165l.; C. K. Allison, 165l.; A. J. Summerton, 135l.

Waterside Branch:—

Surveyor of Customs, F. K. Chase, 700l.

First Class Examining Officer, B. V. O'Riley, 400l.; G. J. Kirby, 300l.; A. R. Harper, 300l.; H. J. O'Leary, 320l.

Second Class Examining Officers, K. J. Sinclair, 300l.; J. W. Mullen, 260l.; T. W. C. Moriarty, 272l.

Third Class Examining Officer, G. E. Saunders, 180l.; C. L. L. Biden, 180l.

Port Alfred.

Sub-Collector and Examining Officer (also R.M.), G. van R. Philpott.

East London.

Collector of Customs and Registrar of Shipping, A. P. Murray, 650l., also 100l. as Harbour Board Commissioner.

Chief Clerk and Warehouse-keeper, H. C. Kolbe, 500l.

Second Clerk and Assistant Warehouse-keeper, A. de R. E. Louw, 340l.

Second Class Clerk, B. A. Steer, 200l.

Third Class Clerks, H. J. Parsons, 180l.; G. F. Manley, 180l.; E. W. Rogers, 180l.; W. H. A. J. Rein, 150l.; S. W. Taylor, 150l.; C. S. Hatchard, 135l.; M. W. Hill, 135l.

Waterside Branch:—

Surveyor of Customs, T. G. H. Orpen, 525l.

First Class Examining Officers, W. G. Griffith, 400l.; W. Jordan, 330l.

Second Class Examining Officers, A. C. Norton, 260l.; R. A. Hendrikz, 240l.; O. G. Griffith, 240l.

Acting Examining Officer, H. Wetzlar, 240l.

St. John's.

Officer in Charge (also R.M. and Port Officer), F. E. H. Guthrie, 75l. (allowance).

Port of Walvisch Bay.

Officer in Charge (also R.M.), D. Eadie.

Kimberley.

Officer in Charge (acting), F. J. Percival, 260l., also 50l. local allowance.

Umzimkulu.

Principal Officer of Customs, A. Zoutendyk, 300l., also local allowance, 50l., and horse allowance, 30l.

Simon's Town.

Collector, Warehouse-keeper, and Examining Officer, G. J. Boyes, 50l.

PORTS AND HARBOURS.

Table Bay.

Nautical Adviser (acting), Capt. W. Stephen, 200l., also Port Captain.

Shipping Master, R. C. Nisbet, 280l.

Port Nolloth.

Port Officer (acting), F. H. Browne, 50l.

Simon's Town.

Port Officer and Shipping Master, G. J. Boyes (also Collector of Customs and R.M.).

Mossel Bay.

Harbour Master, Capt. M. G. Grogan, 400l., also 25l. as member of Mossel Bay Harbour Board.

Knysna.

Port Officer and Shipping Master, W. L. Philpott, 50l.

Assistant Wharf Master, D. E. Horwood, 30l.

Plettenberg Bay.

Port Officer, W. Jones, 50l.

Storms River.

Customs and Port Officer, G. R. Atkinson, 12l.

Port Alfred.

Port Officer, G. van R. Philpott.

Port Elizabeth.

Shipping Master, W. L. Dymott, 365l.

East London.

Shipping Master, W. Hildyard, 308l.

Port St. John's.

Port Officer and Harbour Master, F. E. H. Guthrie.
ATTORNEY-GENERAL'S MINISTERIAL DEPARTMENT.

ATTORNEY-GENERAL'S OFFICE.

Attorney-General, The Hon. Victor Sampson, K.C., 2,000l.
Secretary to the Law Department, Sir J. J. Graham, K.C.M.G., 1,300l.
Assistant Secretary to the Law Department, E. F. Lonsdale, 800l.
Private Secretary to Attorney-General, C. W. H. Lansdown, B.A., 600l.

Administrative Branch.

Chief Clerk, J. D. Cormack, 650l.
Clerks, F. W. Bulk, 300l.; H. J. Malan, B.A., 255l., allowance 50l.; G. U. Grimbeek, 150l.; R. T. Dorrington, 150l.; W. A. Rail, 120l.

Criminal and Legal Branch.

Assistant Law Adviser, Howel Jones, 1,000l.
Additional Legal Advisers, L. G. Nightingale, 750l.; M. O. Evans, 750l.
Chief Clerk, P. K. A. de Vos, B.A. (acting), 400l., allowance 25l.
Clerks, A. S. Welsh, B.A., 240l.; B. F. Marais, 195l.; E. R. Roper, B.A., 180l.

Divisional Courts Branch.

Clerks, W. T. Griffin, 280l.; J. J. Malherbe, 200l.; D. E. McCausland, M.A., 180l.

Police Branch.

Principal Clerk, M. Garrett, 550l.
Clerks, J. F. F. Packman, B.A., 235l.; M. W. Hartley, 180l.; R. C. Okes, 165l.

Accounting Branch.

Accounting Officer, E. F. Lonsdale.
Accountant, F. H. Joubert, 700l.
Book-keeper and Chief Examining Officer, 600l.
Clerk, V. H. T. H. Rudd, 200l.

SOLICITOR-GENERALS' OFFICE, GRAHAMSTOWN.

Solicitor-General, H. Lardner Burke, K.C., 1,000l.
Chief Clerk to Solicitor-General, C. J. Schermbrucker, 350l.
Clerk, J. A. Dickinson, 150l.

CROWN PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE, KIMBERLEY.

Crown Prosecutor, H. T. Tamplin, K.C., 1,000l.
Chief Clerk to the Crown Prosecutor, C. E. Horne (acting), 235l., allowance 50l.

SUPREME COURT.

Chief Justice, Rt. Hon. Sir J. H. de Villiers, K.C.M.G., 2,750l., and 500l. as President of the Legislative Council.
Puisne Judges, Sir E. J. Buchanan, 2,250l.; C. G. Maasdorp, 2,250l.
Secretary to the Chief Justice, F. M. de Villiers, 250l.
Clerk to Judge Buchanan, C. J. Ingram, B.A., LL.B., 200l.
Clerk to Judge Maasdorp, A. Stockenstrom, 200l.
Registrar, H. R. Dale, 750l.
Assistant Registrar and Taxing Officer, G. D. Rainier, 650l.
Assistant Registrars, A. M. Black, 260l.; C. Currie (acting), 240l.
Clerk, E. R. H. Thornhill, 150l.
Shorthand Writer, F. Midgley, 500l.
Typist and Assistant Shorthand Writer, W. C. Lund, 230l.
Interpreter, W. M. Cellier, 600l.

MASTER'S OFFICE, SUPREME COURT.

Master and Guardian of Orphans, G. A. Reynolds, 1,000l.

Orphan Chamber Branch.

Chief Clerk, J. G. B. Heyneman, 650l.
Clerks, L. E. Weichardt, B.A., 320l.; R. de B. Steyn, 240l.; A. Barnes, 195l.; C. W. R. Minnaar, B.A., 195l.; T. E. C. Hobson, 180l.; J. M. M. Commaille, 180l.; S. J. H. van Schoor, 135l.; W. I. Deas, 135l.

Accountant, Guardian Fund, M. L. Neethling (acting), 550l.
Book-keeper, C. T. Knoblauch, 450l.
Clerks, J. P. le R. Esterhuyzen, B.A., 260l.; H. O. de Villiers, 165l.; J. E. L. van Zyl, 150l.; G. T. Walter, 135l.; G. Steyn, B.A., 180l.

Insolvency Branch.

Chief Clerk, R. J. Barry, 340l.
Clerks, C. J. Muller, 340l.; J. F. Perold, 150l.; F. T. Neale, B.A., 180l.

EASTERN DISTRICTS COURT, GRAHAMSTOWN.

Judge President, J. G. Kotze, 2,250l.
Puisne Judges, J. D. Sheil, K.C., 2,000l.; T. L. Graham, K.C., 2,000l.
Clerk to Judge President, H. G. Rousseau, B.A., 200l.
Clerk to Judge Sheil, A. C. Dulcken, 200l.
Clerk to Judge Graham, G. G. McKerron, M.A., 200l.
Registrar, F. J. Jansen, 500l.
Clerk, W. A. Stanton, 195l.
Interpreter (Dutch), H. N. van Aardt (provisionally), 285l.

HIGH COURT OF GRIGUALAND, KIMBERLEY.

Judge President, P. M. Laurence, 2,250l.
Puisne Judges, J. H. Lange, 2,000l.; W. M. Hopley, 2,000l.
Clerk to Judge President (vacant), 250l.
Clerk to Judge Lange, R. S. Medford, B.A., 250l.
Clerk to Judge Hopley, D. C. Jackson, 200l.
Registrar and Master, H. F. Ford, 750l.
Assistant Registrar and Interpreter (Dutch), J. H. van Rooyen, 400l., allowance, 50l.
Clerks, A. C. Versfeld, 240l., allowance 50l.; F. W. Henley, 150l., allowance, 50l.
Interpreter (Native Languages), I. B. M'belle, 375l., allowance 50l.

DEEDS OFFICE.

Registrar of Deeds, W. de N. Lucas, 1,000l.
Assistant Registrar, W. F. Leffler, 650l.
Clerks, C. G. van Renen, 550l.; R. L. Black, 475l.; L. P. Borchers, 320l.; D. Brink, 320l.; A. H. Bain, 300l.; J. H. Versfeld, 300l.; P. V. du Toit, 195l.; C. T. Krummek, 195l.; T. F. Brincker, B.A., 195l.; E. Banwell, 180l.; T. J. Brand, 180l.; C. W. Stegmann, 180l.; L. P. A. Petersen, 180l.; W. J. Brummer, 160l.; F. Harvey, 165l.; R. M. Rogers, 165l.; C. J. Murray, 165l.; R. A. van der Spuy, 165l.; W. Muller, 135l.; E. P. Smith, 135l.; L. F. Dawson, 135l.; F. P. van Coppenhagen, 135l.; A. C. Broadhead, 135l.
Registry Surveyor, W. P. Murray, 750l.
Asst. Registry Surveyor, F. F. Elliott, 500l.
Draughtsman, A. V. Smuts, 7s. 6d. per diem.
HIGH SHERIFF'S OFFICE.

High Sheriff, G. A. Reynolds.
Chief Clerk, J. C. Hinsbeek (acting), 350l.
Clerks, E. F. Oettle, 195l.; G. S. Malan, 135l.

DIVISIONAL COURTS AND OFFICES.

DIVISION OF ABERDEEN.

C.C. and R.M., E. R. W. Giddy, 550l., and quarters.
Clerks, H. T. Driver, 215l.; C. G. Hall, 135l.

DISTRICT OF ADELAIDE.

R.M., C. R. Vaughan, 500l.
Clerk, H. W. S. Baynes, 260l.

DIVISION OF ALBANY.

C.C. and R.M., F. G. C. Graham, 800l., and quarters.
Clerks, R. G. Russouw, 300l.; R. H. Walker, B.A. (acting), 195l.; T. S. Oliver, B.A., 180l.; J. G. Carter, 180l.; D. L. Smit, 150l.

DIVISION OF ALBERT.

C.C. and R.M., J. B. van Renen, 675l., and quarters.
Clerks, O. C. H. Strong, 340l.; G. G. Daly, 165l.

DIVISION OF ALEXANDRIA.

C.C. and R.M., J. I. Herbert, 600l.
Clerk, S. H. Hoal, 350l.

DIVISION OF ALIWAL NORTH.

C.C. and R.M., W. G. Bellairs, 650l., allowance 72l. and quarters.
Clerks, J. G. de la B. van Alphen, 340l.; H. L. Corder, 135l.

DIVISION OF BARKLY EAST.

C.C. and R.M., F. Shaw, 500l., allowance, 120l. and quarters.
Clerks, J. K. v. O. Denysse, 280l.; T. C. Orpen, B.A., 180l.

DIVISION OF BARKLY WEST.

C.C. and R.M., R. C. Lloyd, 500l., quarters and allowance 200l.
Clerks, W. T. Robertson, 260l., allowance 50l.; F. St. C. Fearon, B.A., 180l., allowance 50l.

DIVISION OF BATHURST.

C.C. and R.M., G. v. R. Philpott, 600l.
(Clerk, A. B. Pugh, 195l.)

DIVISION OF BEAUFORT WEST.

C.C. and R.M., E. T. Anderson, 700l. and quarters.
Clerks, A. A. van Breda, 260l.; A. F. Corbett, B.A., 180l.; J. P. Rossouw, 150l.

DIVISION OF BEDFORD.

C.C. and R.M., J. A. Gibbs, 700l.
Clerks, J. G. R. Innes, 300l.; A. W. H. R. Preston, 180l.

DIVISION OF BREDASIDORP.

C.C. and R.M., H. T. L. Maclear, 600l. and quarters.
Clerk, D. G. Barry, 340l.

DIVISION OF BRITSTOWN.

C.C. and R.M., S. D. Cloete, 500l., and quarters.
Clerk, A. E. Jubb, 280l.; W. B. Biddulph, 220l.

DIVISION OF CALEDON.

C.C. and R.M., W. C. Scully, 700l., and quarters.
Clerks, P. E. Kuys, 320l.; H. L. Hare, 165l.

CALITZDORP.

Asst. R.M., P. M. van der Spuy, 450l.

DIVISION OF CALVINIA.

C.C. and R.M., A. C. Bain, 750l., allowance 100l.
Clerks, H. H. R. Piers, 300l., allowance 50l.; W. T. de B. Riordan, 150l.

CAPE DIVISION.

C.C., G. Piers, 900l.
Clerks, W. J. Te Water, 450l.; E. A. Anthony, 320l.; D. H. Visser, 260l.; R. W. Lambert, 195l.; E. G. Davies, 195l.; C. G. Botha, 165l.
R.M., J. T. Wyld, 1,100l., allowance 50l.
Asst. R.Ms., C. W. Broers, 600l., allowance 125l.; W. D. S. Lotter, 450l.; H. C. Becker, 450l.
Clerks, C. E. Kidger, 300l.; R. H. Chenoweth, 195l.; J. H. C. van Breda, 180l.; A. C. G. Lloyd, B.A., 180l.; G. H. Shawe, 165l.; S. E. Ellison, B.A., 180l.
Interpreter (in foreign languages), H. G. Semadeni, 350l.

DIVISION OF CARNARVON.

C.C. and R.M., C. J. Bam, 550l., allowance 120l. and quarters.
Clerk, C. D. Campbell, 240l., allowance 25l.

DIVISION OF CATHCART.

C.C. and R.M., A. W. H. R. Preston, 650l.
Clerks, E. N. Grayson, M.A., 300l.; C. F. Goad, 135l.

DIVISION OF CERES.

C.C. and R.M., C. A. Horne, 650l.
Clerk, H. Cloete, 340l.

DIVISION OF CLANWILLIAM.

C.C. and R.M., W. N. Kuys, 500l., and quarters.
Clerk, S. C. Brown (acting), 200l.

DIVISION OF COLESBERG.

C.C. and R.M., G. H. B. Shaw, 600l.
Clerks, W. Harmer, 260l.; H. K. Ballot, 180l.

DIVISION OF CRADOCK.

C.C. and R.M., Capt. H. A. Jenner, 900l., and quarters.
Clerks, H. M. Borchersds, 280l.; F. J. van Aardt, 260l.; G. O. Thornton, B.A., 165l.

DE AAR.

Asst. R.M., J. Shand, 450l., and quarters.
Clerk, C. H. C. van der Spuy, 195l., allowance 25l.

DURBANVILLE.

Asst. R.M., C. G. B. Borchersds, 450l.
Clerk, H. M. Nourse, 180l.
Division of East London.

C.C. and R.M., R. R. B. Howe, 800l., and quarters.
Clerks, W. J. L. McDonald, 340l.; M. M. Basson, 200l.; J. M. Carson, 200l.; P. H. Louw, 195l.; F. C. M. Voigt, B.A., 195l.; F. P. C. Clarke, B.A., 180l.

Division of Fort Beaufort.

C.C. and R.M., G. E. Syme, 600l., and quarters.
Clerks, D. G. E. Bergh, 300l.; W. S. R. Dorrrington, 300l.

Division of Fraserburg.

C.C. and R.M., P. B. Borchers, 450l., allowance 25l., and quarters.
Clerk, A. T. Schorn, 260l.

Garies.

Asst. R.M., A. I. G. Muller, 450l., allowance 50l.

Division of George.

C.C. and R.M., C. R. Haw, 700l., and allowance 60l. in lieu of quarters.
Clerks, W. A. de Vos, 300l.; B. Pulvermacher, 180l.

Division of Gordonia.

C.C. and R.M., P. M. Wright, 500l., quarters, and allowances 165l.
Clerks, F. C. W. Coller, 280l., allowance 36l.; P. J. Burger, 150l., allowance 36l.

Division of Graaff-Reinet.

C.C. and R.M., J. A. S. Hoole, 800l., allowance 90l.
Clerks, H. W. Hermans, 340l.; L. H. G. Albertyn, 195l.; G. F. Bell (acting), 165l.

Division of Hanover.

C.C. and R.M., C. H. Hilliard, 600l., and quarters.
Clerk, B. I. Goldschmidt, 220l.

Division of Hay.

C.C. and R.M., F. B. Gedye, 500l., allowance 50l., and quarters.
Clerks, E. Tinley, 300l., allowance 50l.; B. Muller, 180l., allowance 36l.

Division of Herbert.

C.C. and R.M., H. H. Roberts, 500l., allowance 50l., and quarters.
Clerks, J. M. B. Brand, 240l., allowance 36l.; M. B. Robinson, B.A., 180l., allowance 50l.

Hopefield.

Asst. R.M., P. G. Fischer, 400l., and quarters.
Clerk, C. Carstens, 150l.

Division of Hope Town.

C.C. and R.M., A. B. van Ryneveld, 600l., and quarters.
Clerk, H. W. Whitehorn, 240l.

Division of Humansdorp.

C.C. and R.M., H. E. Marshall, 600l., allowance 50l.
Clerks, J. C. Magennis, 290l.; L. Ward, B.A., 180l.

Indwe.

Asst. R.M., H. F. J. Borchers, 500l.
Clerk, H. G. Rawlins, B.A., 180l.

Division of Jansenville.

C.C. and R.M., D. D. Leslie, 550l.
Clerks, F. G. Meyer, 260l.; P. D. Theron, 150l.

Keiskama Hoek.

Asst. R.M., J. M. Richards, 400l., and quarters.

Division of Kenhardt.

C.C. and R.M., J. Drysdale, 450l., allowance 50l., and quarters.
Clerks, J. W. White, 240l., allowance 36l.; T. M. Chianall, 150l., allowance 36l.

Division of Kimberley.

C.C. and Registrar of Deeds, J. J. Christie, 1,000l., and quarters.
Clerks, T. W. Harker, 650l., allowance 50l.; A. O. Hill, 350l., allowance 50l.; C. B. R. Innes, 350l., allowance 50l.; B. Shaw (acting), 320l., allowance 36l.; A. R. Brand, 300l., allowance 50l.; R. W. Wamsley, B.A., 180l., allowance 50l.; E. H. Evans, B.A., 180l., allowance 50l.; J. S. W. Lambert, 180l., allowance 36l.; D. H. Hutcheson (acting), 165l., allowance 36l.
R.M., E. J. Philpott, 900l., allowances 175l.
Clerks, P. G. Armstrong, 320l., allowance 50l.; R. Ponton, 180l., allowance 50l.; B. D. H. Hudson, 165l., allowance 50l.; J. J. Wessels, 165l., allowance 36l.
Additional R.M., Beaconsfield, V. E. P. Bradshaw, 550l., allowance 50l.
Clerk, G. H. Milles, B.A., 200l., allowance 50l.

Division of King William's Town.

C.C. and R.M. and Registrar of Deeds, W. B. G. Blenkins, 800l., and quarters.
Clerks, G. W. E. Rein, 500l.; W. T. Welsh, 340l.; E. H. Catherine, 215l.; N. W. Dorrrington, 200l.; V. H. C. Dix, 180l.; J. T. Harper, 180l.; H. P. Keevy, 180l.; W. B. T. Walker, 150l.; F. Ninow (acting), 135l.

Klipdam.

Asst. R.M., P. Wither, 450l., allowance 50l.
Clerk, J. F. Malherbe, 220l., allowance 36l.

Division of Knysna.

C.C. and R.M., W. L. Philpott, 550l., allowances 100l., and quarters.
Clerks, A. G. de Smidt, 240l.; R. B. Horn, 180l.

Division of Komgha.

C.C. and R.M., J. H. O'Connell, 600l., and quarters.
Clerk, S. J. Olivier, 260l.

Kuruman.

R.M., M. J. Lyne, 500l., allowance 100l., and quarters.
Clerk, J. H. E. Mayne, 280l., allowance 36l.

Division of Ladismith.

C.C. and R.M., L. Neethling, 700l.
Clerk, J. R. Cellarius, 260l.

Lady Grey.

Asst. R.M., S. P. Court, 450l.
CAPE OF GOOD HOPE.

DIVISION OF LAINGSBURG.
C.C. and R.M., P. F. Aling, 700l.
Clerk, M. W. Versfeld, 280l.

DIVISION OF MAPEKING.
C.C. and R.M., E. G. Green, 500l., allowances 195l., and quarters.
Clerks, P. J. Hugo, 280l., allowance 36l.; C. D. Stanier (acting), 220l., allowance 36l.

DIVISION OF MALMESBURY.
C.C. and R.M., C. J. Sweeney, 800l., and allowance, 144l.
Clerks, E. F. B. Schierhout, B.A., 340l.; J. N. Steenkamp, 195l.; H. Louw, 135l.

MARIAZBURG.
Asst. R.M., A. J. R. Wilmot, 500l.

DIVISION OF MIDDELBURG.
C.C. and R.M., E. G. Green, 600l., and quarters.
Clerks, D. A. Stewart, 290l.; F. L. Tabor, B.A., 180l.

MIDDLEDRIFT.
Asst. R.M., F. E. L. Harries, 450l.

DIVISION OF MOLTENO.
C.C. and R.M., J. C. P. du Toit, 600l., and quarters.
Clerk, W. B. W. Gunn, 280l.

DIVISION OF MONTAGU.
C.C. and R.M., C. M. Stevens, 600l.
Clerks, J. Foster, 300l. (on sick leave); E. B. Walton (acting), 240l.

DIVISION OF MOSSEL BAY.
C.C. and R.M., R. C. Ferris, 700l., and quarters.
Clerks, D. G. Tennant, 320l. (on sick leave); J. G. Freislich, 320l.; T. Le B. Roscoe, B.A., 180l.

DIVISION OF MURRAYSBURG.
C.C. and R.M., J. A. Smellekamp, 500l., and quarters.
Clerk, J. S. Bailey, B.Sc., 195l.

NAAUWPOORT.
Asst. R.M., J. A. v. S. D'Oliveira, 500l.

DIVISION OF NAMAQUALAND.
C.C. and R.M., W. B. Magennis, 500l., allowance 165l., and quarters.
Clerks, F. E. G. Munscheid, 260l., allowance 36l.; S. J. de Vos, 180l., allowance 36l.

DIVISION OF OUDTSHOORN.
C.C. and R.M., F. Wrench, 600l. and quarters.
Clerks, E. J. le Roux, 300l.; J. S. Allison, M.A., 180l.; A. Z. Auret, 165l.; L. F. P. N. Helm, 165l.

DIVISION OF THE PAARL.
C.C. and R.M., C. S. Nicholson, 800l., allowance 108l.
Clerks, E. H. van Noorden, 350l.; W. F. Rose, 300l.; C. P. Immelman, 300l.; J. Roos, 300l.; S. R. Brunette, 150l.

PEARSTON.
Asst. R.M., J. B. Fraser, 450l.

DIVISION OF PEDDIE.
C.C. and R.M., W. M. Eustace, 550l., and quarters.
Clerk, L. J. Taylor, 240l.

PETRUSVILLE.
Asst. R.M., G. H. Bright, 450l.

DIVISION OF PHILIPSTOWN.
C.C. and R.M., D. C. Giddy, 500l.
Clerk, R. Kidman, B.A., 235l.

DIVISION OF PIQUETBERG.
C.C. and R.M., C. Kenealy, 600l., and quarters.
Clerks, W. P. Rousseau, 280l.; J. G. Halifax, 135l.

DIVISION OF PORT ELIZABETH.
C.C. and R.M., C. G. H. Bell, C.M.G., 950l., allowance 50l.
Chief Clerk and Asst. R.M., T. B. N. Miles, B.A., 340l.
Clerks, C. van Breda, 195l.; P. P. D. Jackson, 195l.; E. Bickford, 180l.; C. W. Gray, 180l.; C. M. Saayman, 165l.; W. H. Hare, 165l.

DISTRICT OF PORT NOLLOTH.
R.M., F. Howe Browne, 250l., allowance 25l., and quarters (is also Sub-Collector of Customs, allowance 200l.).
Clerk, C. C. Stewart, 165l., allowance 50l.

DIVISION OF PRIESKA.
C.C. and R.M., J. H. Veale, 500l., and quarters.
Clerks, J. Tudor, 260l., allowance 30l.; C. T. Goldswain (acting), 260l.

DIVISION OF PRINCE ALBERT.
C.C. and R.M., J. Ford, 700l.
Clerk, D. H. Marais, B.A., 215l.

DIVISION OF QUEEN'S TOWN.
C.C. and R.M., L. M. Harison, 750l. and quarters, allowance 75l.
Clerks, W. A. B. Rowan, 380l.; N. Lacey, 340l.; E. M. Ponton, 180l.

DIVISION OF RICHMOND.
C.C. and R.M., S. Tilney, 550l., and quarters.
Clerk, C. A. Pentz, 340l.

REITFONTEIN.
Asst. R.M., J. F. Herbst (acting), 450l., allowance 100l.

DIVISION OF RIVERSDALE.
C.C. and R.M., C. J. Roux, 700l.
Clerks, J. S. de Wet, 300l.; T. Moodie, 195l.

DIVISION OF ROBERTSON.
C.C. and R.M., J. C. Gie, 700l., allowance 50l., and quarters.
Clerks, A. P. G. B. Legg, 340l.; J. D. Preiss, 195l.
DISTRICT OF SIMONSTOWN.

R.M., G. J. Boyes, 600l., allowance 135l., and quarters (is also Sub-Collector of Customs).
Clerks, J. G. S. Templeman, 280l.; H. A. Macraith, B.A., 180l.

DIVISION OF SOMERSET EAST.

C.C. and R.M., F. E. Wollaston, 800l.
Clerks, D. N. During, 350l.; B. L. De Fontaine, B.A., 180l.; F. Parry, 135l.

SOMERSET WEST.

Asst. R.M., D. May, 450l.
Clerk, M. E. Eedes, 220l.

DIVISION OF STELLENBOSCH.

C.C. and R.M., H. F. O. Hewett, 750l. and quarters, allowance 25l.
Clerks, T. H. Bain, 360l.; C. W. Crawford, 195l.

STERKSTROOM.

Asst. R.M., A. C. van Renen, 450l., and quarters.

DIVISION OF STEYNSBURG.

C.C. and R.M., T. J. B. Scotland, 550l.
Clerk, C. R. Norton, 220l.

DIVISION OF STETTLERVILLE.

C.C. and R.M., F. J. Lawrence (acting), 500l.
Clerk, A. E. Bergh, 260l.

DIVISION OF STOCKENSTROM.

C.C. and R.M., M. H. Woodifield, 500l., and quarters.
Clerk, S. C. Chase, 260l.

DIVISION OF STUTTERHEIM.

C.C. and R.M., F. E. Philpott, 700l.
Clerk, A. E. Jubb, 280l.

DIVISION OF SUTHERLAND.

C.C. and R.M., J. W. Kuys, 500l., and quarters.
Clerk, H. B. Parsons, 240l.

DIVISION OF SWELLENDAM.

C.C. and R.M., A. F. Robertson, 700l.
Clerks, J. H. Neethling, 340l.; N. D. Tilney, 195l.

DIVISION OF TARKA.

C.C. and R.M., F. C. Garstin, 700l.
Clerks, G. A. Fehrsen, 300l.; F. W. Pope, 135l.

TAUNG.

R.M., J. W. Kuys, 450l., and quarters, allowance, 75l.
Clerk, L. S. Knox-Davies, 200l., allowance, 36l.

DIVISION OF TULBAGH.

C.C. and R.M., W. Hare, 650l.
Clerk, A. J. van der Byl, 300l.

DIVISION OF UITENHAGE.

C.C. and R.M., P. Dreyer, 725l., and quarters.
Clerks, J. F. de Wet, 300l.; G. F. Hodgson, 200l.; A. Crawford, M.A., 180l.; W. Johnston, 135l.

DIVISION OF UNIONDALE.

C.C. and R.M., J. F. Joubert, 600l., and quarters.
Clerk, P. G. L. de Beer, 320l.

DIVISION OF VAN RHYNSDORP.

C.C. and R.M., K. R. Stewart, 500l.
Clerk, W. D. de la B. van Alphen, 260l.

VENTERSTAD.

Asst. R.M., H. E. Corser, 400l., and quarters.

DIVISION OF VICTORIA EAST.

C.C. and R.M., R. J. Crozier, 625l.
Clerk, E. H. Samuels, 350l.

DIVISION OF VICTORIA WEST.

C.C. and R.M., E. C. A. Welsh, 500l., and quarters.
Clerks, J. S. Jackson, 240l.; C. E. Viljoen, B.A., 180l.

DIVISION OF VRYBURG.

C.C. and R.M., and Registrar of Deeds, F. M. W. Roberts, 600l., allowance 75l., and quarters.
Clerks, C. W. R. Duk, 375l., allowance, 75l.; H. H. Hudson, 320l., allowance, 75l.; G. D. C. Lumsden, 195l., allowance, 36l.; D. J. Read, 195l., allowance, 36l.

DISTRICT OF WALFISH BAY.

R.M., D. Eadie, 550l., allowance 100l., and quarters.
Clerk, F. W. Hutchinson, B.A., 200l., and allowance, 75l.

WELLINGTON.

Asst. R.M., L. W. J. van der Poel, 500l.
Clerk, D. G. Roux, B.A., 180l.

WILLISTON.

Asst. R.M., G. J. A. Reid, 450l.

DIVISION OF WILLOWMORE.

C.C. and R.M., J. D. Hugo, 550l., and quarters.
Clerks, I. A. Rees, 300l.; A. H. T. Muller, M.A., 195l.

DIVISION OF WODEHOUSE.

C.C. and R.M., H. E. Gadd, 550l., and quarters.
Clerks, J. W. Mitchell, 300l.; J. H. van der Vyver, 180l.

DISTRICT OF WOODSTOCK.

R.M., H. O. Badnall (acting), 550l.
Clerks, A. J. Waters, B.A. (acting), 300l.; J. D. Krige, B.A., 215l. (on leave); F. R. Barratt (acting), 165l.; W. G. Hoal, B.A., 165l.

DIVISION OF WORCESTER.

C.C. and R.M., J. C. Stapleton, 700l., and quarters.
Clerks, H. A. van Bart, 350l.; J. D. Holtzhausen, 180l.; R. H. Gage, 150l.

DISTRICT OF WYNBERG.

R.M., G. B. Williams, 700l.
Clerks, C. P. de Villiers, 350l.; G. G. van Breda, 215l.

Relieving C.C. and R.M., T. H. Roux, 600l.
Relieving Clerks, M. H. Gie, 350l.; allowance, 75l.; E. C. Middlewick, 340l.; allowance, 75l.; F. de Villiers, 320l.; allowance, 75l.; L. R. Rawstorne, 320l.; allowance, 75l.; H. W. Drew 300l.; allowance, 75l.; C. E. Studolph, 300l.; allowance, 75l.; K. R. Thomas, 280l.; allowance, 75l.

Divisional Inspector, A. B. Hofmeyr, 650l.
CAPE OF GOOD HOPE.

URBAN POLICE DISTRICT, CAPE TOWN.

Commissioner, R. M. Crawford, 650l.
Chief Clerk and Paymaster, F. W. Metelerkamp, 400l.
Clerks, R. C. Norton, 375l.; C. F. J. du Toit, 180l.
Shorthand Writer, G. S. Pringle, 260l.

DETECTIVE DEPARTMENT, KIMBERLEY.

Chief of Detective Department, A. H. Garcia, I.S.O., 1,100l., allowance, 250l.
Chief Clerk, A. E. Catherine (temporarily), 525l., allowance, 36l.
Clerks, A. P. S. Campbell, 240l., allowance, 50l.; J. W. du T. Melville, 150l., allowance, 36l.

DEPARTMENT OF COMMISSIONER OF PUBLIC WORKS.

Headquarter Establishment.

Commissioner, Hon. Dr. T. W. Smartt, 1,500l.

Secretariat.

Secretary, C. L. W. Mansergh, 1,100l.
Chief Clerk, C. G. Reynolds, 650l.

Engineering Section.

Principal Clerk, W. J. Davidson, 500l.
Clerks, T. M. Berrange, 310l. and allowances as Private Secretary to Commissioner; J. A. Stegmann, 310l.; W. E. Milne, 275l.; E. J. Scholtz, 260l.; N. A. N. Black, 260l.; F. H. Sargeant, 220l., and 50l. Railway Department allowance; J. S. Jackson, 215l.; M. W. Thom, 210l.

Architectural Section.

Principal Clerk, W. Morkel, 575l.
Clerks, R. A. Hemmens, 500l.; J. H. Easton, 450l.; J. S. Blackhouse, B.A., 425l.; G. H. Treadwell, 315l.; A. Stegmann, 295l.; D. E. Goldschmidt, 285l.; N. G. Ellis, 260l.

General Administrative Section.

Principal Clerk, A. C. Tottle, 550l.
Clerks, B. P. Davies, 275l.; W. H. Short, 260l.; M. S. Pickard, 215l.; T. V. Davies, 200l.; J. Allison, 150l.

Record Section.

Record Clerk, T. Stewart, 320l.
Clerks, C. J. Du Rand, 300l.; G. H. Herman, 270l.; F. J. Brink, 260l.; G. Liebenberg, 205l.; G. van Coppenhagen, 180l.; C. S. Daniel, 165l.; J. R. Pickard, 165l.; H. C. Miller, 135l.; P. P. Faure, 120l.

Accounting Branch.

Chief Accountant and Accounting Officer, Lt.-Col. A. Kitchener, 850l.
Accountant, K. de Kock, 525l.
Assistant Accountant, A. Bell, 400l.
Bookkeepers, W. J. Chadwick, 325l.; W. H. Lousser, 275l.
Clerks, G. Young, 300l.; M. Dreyer, 215l.; F. Watts, 205l.; H. E. Owens, 201l.; J. H. Reeler, 180l.

Messengers.

Head Messenger and Office Keeper, J. E. Ryan, 184l. 16s.
Messengers, A. Y. Mathew, 72l.; J. T. Paver, 65l. 8s.; W. Symons, 42l. 12s.; J. P. Lee, 39l. 12s.; R. J. B. Quick, 2s. 4d. per diem; J. Wilkins, 2s. 4d. per diem.
Messenger and Copyist, G. Wallendorff, 164l. 10s.
Messengers, W. C. Jacobs, 87l.; G. Leenderts, 45l. 12s.; M. Garoute, 3s. 11d. per diem; H. Young, 2s. 4d. per diem; G. Kohler, 2s. 4d. per diem.

Chief Engineer's Section.

Chief Engineer, W. Craig, A.M.I.C.E., 800l.

Engineering Section.

First Assistant Engineer, W. C. Edwards, A.M.I.C.E., 500l.
Second Assistant Engineer, T. W. W. Perry, A.M.I.Mech.E., 400l.
Fourth Assistant Engineer, H. C. Cooper, 280l.
Technical Clerk and Draughtsman, W. O. Vaughan, 17s. 10d. per diem.
Inspecting Engineer, F. W. Waldron, A.M.I.C.E., 552l.
Assistant Engineer, T. W. Stainthorpe, A.M.I.C.E., M.R. San.Inst., 25s. 7d. per diem.
Draughtsman, A. F. K. Taylor, 12s. 6d. per diem.
Senior Draughtsman, J. N. Hansen, 14s. per diem.
Junior Draughtsman, J. Black, 7s. 6d. per diem.
Mechanical Assistant, W. H. Smith, 26s. 2d. per diem.

Architectural Section.

Architect, A. G. Howard, M.S.A., 700l.
Assistant Architect, F. Quy, M.S.A., 415l.
Assistant Architect (Schools), C. F. V. Hougham, 375l.
Chief Draughtsman, W. R. Jaggard, A.R.I.B.A., 425l.
Draughtsmen, H. J. B. Hoskins, 350l.; M. N. C. Boult, 300l.; G. M. Willis, 9s. 6d. per diem.

Clerical Section.

Principal Clerk, A. S. Weisbecker, 425l.
Clerks, H. W. Ashe, 350l.; H. E. Hemmens, 330l.; A. B. du Toit, 280l.; J. M. G. Newey, 215l.; R. E. Farr, 166l.; H. A. Boys, 2s. 6d. per diem.

Stores Branch.

Storekeeper, Captain V. Fox, 475l.
Bookkeeper, D. Hunt, F.I.A. (Lond.), 300l.
Issuer of Stores, R. J. Wilson, 273l.
Stores Assistant, W. A. Egan, 235l.
Lift Attendant, G. Verrinder, 7s. 6d. per diem.
Foreman of Labourers, W. Whyburd, 191l.

Field Establishment.

Division No. 1.

Divisional Engineer, W. Dickinson, 583l.
Clerk and Accountant, J. N. Kemp, 409l.
Clerk, H. U. Smith, 300l.; A. E. Fox, 13s. 5d. per diem.
Clerks of Works, J. Keast, 17s. 10d. per diem; F. Grace, 17s. 6d. per diem; F. B. Holt, 15s. 4d. per diem; B. H. Dods, 15s. 4d. per diem; P. H. Brown, 10s. per diem; W. F. L. Thompson, 11s. per diem; J. Esau, 152l. 6s.
Paymaster, A. Gracien, 470l.
Division No. 2.

Divisional Engineer, R. Bromley, A.M.I.C.E., 610l.
Clerk and Accountant, F. B. Morgenrood, 320l.
Clerk, A. Peiser, 245l.
Engineering Assistant, W. Punt, 16s. 5d. per diem (Sunday inclusive).
Architectural Assistant, H. H. Bridgman, 19s. 2d. per diem.
Field Assistant, R. Barnes, 15s. 4d. per diem and 50l. house.
Messenger, H. Langton, 1s. 2d. per diem.

Division No. 3.

Divisional Engineer, H. C. Litchfield, A.M.I.C.E., 710l.
Clerk and Accountant, F. G. Mann, 260l., and 50l. local.
Clerks, G. W. A. Eaton, 13s. 1d. per diem; R. H. Neville, 190l., and 50l. local.
Field Assistant, W. C. B. De Smidt, 300l., and 50l. local.
Clerk of Works, F. Gavey, 15s. 4d. per diem.
Draftsman and General Assistant, W. W. Parkins, 345l.
Messenger, M. Kashe, 6s. 1d. per diem.

Division No. 4.

Divisional Engineer, B. W. Ritsco, M.I.C.E., etc., 600l.
Clerk and Accountant, J. F. Hawtayne, 440l., and 50l. house.
Clerks, P. J. Botha, 240l.; J. G. Marais, 225l.
Typist, J. N. L. Clarke, 177l.
Engineering Assistant, R. S. Johnson, 13s. 8d. per diem.
Architectural Assistant, A. J. Foster, 435l.
Architectural Assistant and Draughtsman, E. H. Woodcook, 370l.
Messenger, I. Block, 3s. 6d. per diem.

Water Boring Section, Division No. 4.

Field Inspector, A. Mellish, 400l.
Clerks, W. B. Jacks, 13s. 6d. per diem; W. C. Malan, 11s. per diem; J. Hattingh, 3s. per diem.

Division No. 5.

Divisional Engineer, W. L. Trollip, 621l. and quarters.
Assistant Divisional Engineer, H. A. Fuhr, A.M.I.C.E., 487l. and quarters.
Clerk and Accountant, A. Millard, 385l.
Clerks, F. J. Denysen, 235l.; J. W. G. Jarvis, 210l.; F. W. Hicher, 160l.; T. H. Guest, 12s. 10d. per diem; T. G. Watson, 10s. 9d. per diem; H. Glass, 6s. per diem; F. W. Weisgerber, 5s. 10d. per diem.
Engineering Assistant, G. O. Newey, 340l., and 42l. house
Architectural Assistant, E. Cheetham, 25s. 3d. per diem.
Clerk of Works, G. H. Scaife, 15s. 4d. per diem, and 50l. house.
Field Assistants, W. de S. Bain, 317l., and 4s. 6d. per diem forage, and 4s. per diem house; C. A. Baillie, 254l., and 46l. forage and quarters.
Draftsman, A. Winder, 13s. 3d. per diem.
Storekeeper, H. S. Turner, 260l.
Messenger, J. Nguda, 2s. 6d. per diem.

Division No. 6.

Divisional Engineer, W. von Meyer, 340l., and 28l. forage and 22l. house.
Clerk and Accountant, W. A. Elton, 270l.
Clerks, E. G. Hollis, 12s. 6d. per diem; G. C. Hollis, 8s. 1d. per diem; F. L. Wilson, 12s. 3d. per diem; C. J. Steel, 11s. per diem.
Engineering Assistant, E. J. D. Brooks, 23s. per diem.
Field Assistant, C. A. Hawker, 14s. per diem and 30l. house.
Messenger, K. Magwentshu, 3s. 3d. per diem.

Irrigation and Hydraulic Branch.

Director of Irrigation, W. B. Gordon, C.I.E., 2,000l.
Clerks, D. W. Manning, 475l.; A. C. Milne, 300l.; J. Peters, 162l.
Draughtsman, G. D. Clarke, 240l.
Supervising Engineer, W. A Legg, A.M.I.C.E., 900l.
Resident Engineers for Surveys, R. W. Newman, 32s. 10d. per diem (Sunday inclusive); T. E. Scaife, 425l.
Assistant Engineers and Surveyors, E. Burrows, 375l.; W. N. Kelly, 19s. 2d. per diem; I. J. P. Kleyn, 19s. 2d. per diem; W. M. Watt, 15s. 4d. per diem; M. Randall, 15s. 4d. per diem; G. B. Cotton, 15s. 4d. per diem; S. W. Down, 11s. 6d. per diem.
Water Bailiffs, A. C. Martin, 264l., and 36l. forage; C. C. McMillan, 220l., and 30l. forage.

RAILWAYS.

Chief Offices.—Cape Town.

General Manager, T. S. McEwen, 2,500l.
Assistant General Manager, A. J. Robb, 1,250l.
Engineer-in-Chief, A. G. Dalton, 1,050l., and 200l. construction allowance.
Assistant Engineer-in-Chief, A. M. Tippett, 950l., and 150l. construction allowance.
Chief Locomotive Superintendent, H. M. Beatty, C.M.G., 1,200l.
Chief Traffic Manager, G. C. S. Clark, C.M.G., 1,060l.
Chief Accountant of Railways, C. G. Goodison, 935l.
Accountant of Railways, T. Ireland, 700l.
Chief Railway Storekeeper, C. Cook, 900l.
Assistant Chief Railway Storekeeper, P. J. Hart, 600l.

Western, South-Western, Midland, Northern and Eastern, and Rhodesia Systems.

Offices.—Cape Town, Beaufort West, Port Elizabeth, Kimberley, East London and Mafeking.

Chief Resident Engineer, Cape Town, A. M. Tippett, 875l., and 145l. 16s. 8d. house.
Resident Engineer, Western System, Cape Town, H. H. Elliott, 850l.
Resident Engineer, Midland System, Port Elizabeth, A. D. Tudhope, 700l., and 116l. house.
Resident Engineer, Eastern System, East London, F. L. Rubidge, 550l., quarters, and 50l. special.
Acting Resident Engineer and District Engineer, Rhodesia System, Mafeking, A. H. Wallis, 525l., quarters, and 100l. local.
Locomotive Superintendent, Western System, Salt River, G. McGrath, 770l.
Locomotive Superintendent, Eastern System, East London, W. S. Sim, 750l., and quarters.
Locomotive Superintendent, Midland System, Uitenhage, J. M. Thornton, 850l., and quarters.
Locomotive Superintendent, Rhodesia System, Mafeking, R. J. Hall, 550l., quarters, and 100l. local allowance.
Relieving Locomotive Superintendent, Salt River, H. B. Gemmell, 650l., and 50l. house allowance.
Traffic Manager, Midland System, Port Elizabeth, J. O. Paterson, 950l.
Traffic Manager, Western System, Cape Town, G. T. Dowling, 925l.
Traffic Manager, Eastern System, East London, N. Wilson, 750l., and quarters.
Traffic Manager, South Western System, Beaufort West, J. J. de Bene, 700l., and 116l. 13s. 4d. house.
Traffic Manager, Northern System, Kimberley, W. Stevenson, 700l., quarters, and 15l. local allowance.
Railway, Storekeeper, Western System, Cape Town, P. H. C. Smallman, 460l. and 40l. special.
Railway Storekeeper, Midland System, Port Elizabeth, G. Wilton, 500l. and 40l. special.
Railway Storekeeper, Eastern System, East London, E. Giles, 475l. and 40l. special.

Sleeper Factory: - Knysna.
Superintendent, Knysna, G. R. Atkinson, 192l., and 35l. forage, 48l. house, 24l. Customs and 12l. Port Officer.

Ministerial Department of Agriculture.

Office of Secretary for Agriculture.
Secretary for Agriculture, Hon. A. J. Fuller, 1,500l.
Chief Clerk to Secretary for Agriculture, Barry McMillan (acting), 620l.
Principal Clerk and Private Secretary, F. W. Green, 380l., 50l. allowance.
3rd Class Clerk, T. A. Hawxwell, 135l.
Typist, Miss E. Lange, 6s. 6d. per diem.
Accountant and Accounting Officer, G. W. Caffyn, 600l.
Clerks, F. van Blommestein, 340l.; R. E. C. le Sueur, 245l.; F. J. Street, 165l.
Government Biologist, J. D. F. Gilchrist, M.A., Ph.D., B.Sc., 650l.
Clerk, J. W. Munnik, 9s. 6d., per diem.
Officer in charge of Trout Hatchery, Jonker's Hoek, J. L. Scott, 11s. 8d. per diem.
Master in charge of Steam Trawler "Pieter Faure," G. H. Cartwright, 30l. per mensem.
Superintendent of Guano Islands, J. Spence, 900l. (acting).
Accountant, W. R. Zeederberg, 430l.
Clerk, H. Jackson, 270l.

Office of Director of Agriculture.
Director of Agriculture, D. Hutcheon, M.R.C.V.S., 1,200l.
Chief Clerk to Director, P. J. du Toit, 500l.
Principal Clerk, G. N. Williams, 450l.
1st Class Clerk, G. A. Rowe, 300l.
2nd Class Clerks, H. L. Shaw, B.A., 280l., allowance of 20l., Secretary Elsenburg Advisory Board; E. W. Telfer, 260l.; W. A. Kitchener, 215l.; A. B. Brink, 200l.
3rd Class Clerk, A. D. Jones, 180l.
Clerks on Probation, B. C. Davison, B.A., 165l.; J. E. Harker, 120l.; J. O'C. McLoughlin, 120l.
Head Messenger, C. V. Maneveld, 200l.
Typist, Miss E. E. Schultz, 7s. 6d. per diem, Sundays excluded.

Agricultural Co-operation.
Superintendent, P. J. Hannon, 1,200l.
Assistant, P. Davidson, 550l.
Commercial Agent, J. H. Hartley, 500l.
Shorthand Writer and Typist, E. C. James, 250l.
Temporary Lady Typist, N. McMullen, 10l. per month.

Veterinary Branch.
Chief Veterinary Surgeon, J. D. Borthwick, M.R.C.V.S., 650l.
Secretary to Veterinary Branch, F. J. du Plessis, 550l.
Clerks, G. Aling, 330l.; E. C. Gates, 16s. per diem, Sundays excluded; I. J. de V. Brunt, 6s. 6d. per diem, Sundays excluded.
Typist, Miss B. Buyskes, 7s. 6d. per diem, Sundays excluded.
Assistant Veterinary Surgeons (15), from 350l. to 500l.
Director, Veterinary Laboratory, Grahamstown, W. Robertson, M.R.C.V.S., 700l. and quarters.
Chief Inspector of Sheep, A. G. Davison, 700l.
Assistants to Chief Inspector of Sheep (14), from 400l. to 450l.
Sheep Inspectors (224), from 75l. to 300l.
Clerks, A. M. Crosthwaite, B.A., 220l.; A. H. Hosking, 220l.; F. G. Stegmann, 220l.; G. K. Eksteen, 200l.; A. Begg, 180l.
Registrar of Brands, Barry McMillan, 50l., allowance.
Herbarium Assistant, Miss S. Treleaven, 180l.
Government Entomologist, C. P. Lounsbury, 800l.
Clerk, P. B. Cloete, 255l.
Eastern Province Entomologist, W. R. Dewar, 450l.
Assistant Entomologist, R. W. Jack, 250l.
Assistants to Entomologists, S. M. Wood, 3s. 10d. per diem, Sundays excluded; T. F. Dreyer, 200l.
Manager and Experimentalist, Government Wine Farm, T. L. Watermeyer, 300l., quarters and rations.
Clerk, D. G. Paterson, 72l., quarters and rations.
Horticultural Assistant, C. E. Pillans, 750l.
Agricultural Assistant, E. A. Nobbs, Ph.D., B.Sc., F.H.A.S., 600l.
Assistant to Agricultural Assistant, R. W. Thornton, 300l.
Clerk, J. A. Kinlay, 217l. 10s.
Typist, Miss C. Green, 6s. 6d. per diem, Sundays excluded.
Dairy Expert, R. Silva Jones, 300l.
Editor of the "Agricultural Journal," F. D. MacDermott, 500l.
Clerk to Editor, C. R. M. Earl, 150l.
Typist, Miss A. M. Difford, 11l. per mensem.
Artist, P. McManus, 19s. 2d. per diem.

Elsenburg Agricultural College.
Principal, J. Noble Jack, 650l., quarters and rations.
Viticulturist, J. Tribblet, 300l., quarters and rations.
Engineering Instructor, N. W. Chandler, 300l., quarters and rations.
Chemistry and Botany Lecturer, G. N. Blackshaw, 240l., quarters and rations.
Carpentry Instructor, J. Hanson, 190l., quarters and rations.
Assistant Science Lecturer, J. F. Gatherer, 120l., quarters and rations.
Farm Manager, A. Rae Smith, 250l., quarters and 25l. rations.
Clerk, W. J. Lamont, 150l., quarters and rations.
Matron, Miss Herbert, 100l., quarters and rations.
Visiting Chaplain, Rev. J. Campbell, 60l.
Office of Chief Conservator of Forests.

Chief Conservator of Forests, J. Storr Lister, 705l., 75l. forage, and 120l. quarters.
Head Clerk, J. G. B. Clayton, 325l.
Conservator of Forests, Western Conservancy, D. E. Hutchins, 660l., 80l. quarters.
Clerk, W. H. Buckerfield, 330l.
Conservator of Forests, Midland Conservancy, C. B. McNaughton, 500l., 75l. forage, and 72l. quarters.
Clerk, H. H. Stroebel, 175l., 25l. quarters.
Conservator of Forests, Transkeian Conservancy, A. W. Heywood, 550l., 75l. forage, 80l. quarters.
Clerk, C. T. H. Brain, 180l., 75l. forage, 25l. quarters.
Assistant Conservator of Forests, Eastern Conservancy, J. S. Henkel, 400l. and quarters.
Clerk, M. S. Gurney, 215l., 48l. quarters.

Diamond Mines.

Inspector of Mines, Kimberley and Barkly West, Thomas Quentall, 1,080l., and allowances 240l.
Messenger, 230l., 20l. forage allowance.
Inspector of Claims, Barkly West, H. Rees, 500l. and 120l. forage allowance.
Clerks, T. M. du Toit, 360l.; R. G. S. Chandler, 120l.
Mining Constables, one at 200l., and 60l. allowance, and one at 180l., and 60l. forage allowance.

Surveyor-General's Office.

Surveyor-General, A. H. Cornish Bowden, 900l.
Chief Clerk, E. Stapleton, 565l.
Clerks, A. S. Harker, 490l.; C. E. Matthews, 425l.; W. F. Gregory, 420l.; A. J. Begg, 400l.; O. K. von Oppell, 365l.; F. L. Scholtz, 319l.; D. E. Buyskes, 300l.; W. P. Pritchard, 300l.; M. G. Aphthor, B.A., 300l.; A. H. M. Louw, 270l.; S. L. Taylor Taswell, B.A., 264l.; A. C. Oakes, 260l.; F. J. van H. Duminy, 240l.; H. C. Hooper, 180l.; P. F. Fouché, 180l.; M. du T. van Niekerk, 180l.; A. C. Brink, 150l.; W. E. Ball, 150l.; A. F. Preis, 150l.; C. D. Wilson, 135l.
Chief Draftsman, M. J. Brink, 600l.
Assistant Draftsmen, H. R. van L. Kuys, 475l.; J. Fleming, 425l.; T. G. Budgen, 300l.; P. A. Brand, 270l.; R. Pritchard, 270l.; J. Souter, 180l.; H. D. Warwick, 150l.
Examiner of Diagrams, M. C. Vos, 650l.
Computers, C. R. Alston, 245l.; M. L. v. d. Spuy, 160l.; N. Reynolds, 160l.
Lithographers, A. I. Bailey, 340l.; F. V. Brigly, 315l.
Geodetic Officers, J. J. Bosman, 900l.; E. W. Andrews, 380l.; Miss L. Stapleton, B.A., 200l.

Royal Observatory.

(Expenses defrayed from Admiralty Chest.)
Latitude, south 33° 56' 3"; longitude, 1h. 13m. 54° 76' east of Greenwich.
H.M. Astronomer, S. S. Hough, F.R.A.S., F.R.S.
Chief Assistant, S. S. Hough, Esq., M.A., F.R.S.
Assistants, Joseph Lunt, Esq., B.Sc., F.C.S., and R. T. Pett, Esq., W. H. Cox, Esq., and John Power, Esq.
Established Computer (Higher Grade), R. Woodgate, Esq., and six established computers.
Secretary and Librarian, A. Pilling, Esq., B.A.

Ecclesiastical.

Archbishop.

Cape Town, Most Rev. W. W. Jones, D.D.

Bishops.

Grahamstown, Rt. Rev. C. E. Cornish, D.D.
Natal, F. S. Baines, D.D.
St. John's, J. W. Williams, D.D.
Pretoria, W. M. Carter, D.D.
Bloemfontein, A. Chandler, D.D.
Zululand, W. L. Vyvyan, M.A.
Lebombo, W. E. Smyth, M.A., M.B.
Mashonaland, W. T. Gaul, D.D.
St. Helena, W. A. Holbech, M.A.

Coadjutor Bishop of Capetown.

Cape Town, Vacant.

Deans.

Cape Town, Very Rev. C. W. Barnett-Clarke, M.A.
Grahamstown, F. E. Carter, M.A.
Natal, J. Barker, D.D.
St. John's, L. P. Booth, D.D., M.D.
Bloemfontein, F. H. Hulme.

Archdeacon.

George, Ven. P. P. Fogg, M.A.
Cape, R. Brooke, B.A.
Port Elizabeth, W. Llewellyn, B.A.
King William's Town, A. J. Grant.
Maritzburg, J. Barker, D.D.
Durban, E. A. Hammick, M.A.
Vryheid, C. Johnson.
Eskowé, F. Roach.
St. Mark's, E. L. Coakes.
Kokstad, T. Chamberlain, M.A.
Potchefstrom, A. Roberts.
Heidelberg, A. Temple.
Pretoria, H. B. Sidwell, B.A.
Johannesburg, M. B. Furne, M.A.
Basutoland, F. R. T. Balfour, M.A.
Bloemfontein, J. R. Vincent, M.A.
Kimberley, W. H. Weekes, M.A.
Mashonaland, J. H. Upcher, M.A.
Matabeleland, F. H. Beaven.
Lebombo, G. F. Gillett, M.A.

Roman Catholic Bishop, Cape Town, Most Rev. Dr. Leonard; do. Assistant, Right Rev. Dr. Rooney.

Roman Catholic Bishop of Grahamstown, Rt. Rev. Dr. MacSherry.

Vicar Apostolic, Kimberley, Rt. Rev. Dr. Gaughran.

Vicar Apostolic, Pella, Namaqualand, Rt. Rev. Dr. Simon.

Moderator of the Synod of the Dutch Reformed Church, Rev. J. H. Hofmeyr (Somerset East).

President Wesleyan Methodist Conference, The Rev. R. F. Hornabrook, Healdtown.

Moderator Presbyterian Assembly, Rev. J. J. McClure, D.D., Cape Town.

President Congregational Union, Rev. G. P. Ferguson, M.A. (Bedford).

President Baptist Union, Rev. J. J. Doke, Grahamstown.

Foreign Consuls.

ARGENTINE REPUBLIC, Cape Town, †Don Francisco P. Nansen; Port Elizabeth, *John Brown; East London, *H. Jungheinrich.

* Vice-Consul, † Consul-General.
