NORTHERN NIGERIA.

(See Map under Southern Nigeria.)

Situation and Area.

The Protectorate of Northern Nigeria is bounded on the south by the Protectorates of Lagos and Southern Nigeria; the boundary, which is also the limit of the zone of "trade-liquor" importation, leaves the frontier of Dahomey a little south of latitude 9°, and, running east to the borders of Ilorin, follows the frontier of that State round its western and southern limits, and is then drawn due east to Idah on the Niger; thence it runs almost due east to meet the frontier of the German Kameruns a little south of Tarkum, practically following the 7th parallel of latitude. To the west it is bounded by the hinterland of French Dahomey, the line having been settled by the Convention of June, 1898. Okuta, Ashigiri and Illo fall within British Borgu, while Paraku and Nikki are included in the French sphere. Thence, crossing the Niger 10 miles north of Illo, the boundary follows the Dalul Mauri till it meets the arc of a circle drawn (with 100-mile radius) from Sokoto as a centre. On the north the French Sudan is conterminous with the Protectorate. From the point at which the arc of the circle described meets the 14th parallel the second time the boundary follows that parallel for 70 miles, then runs due south to parallel 13°20', which it follows for 250 miles, then due north to the 14th, then along 14° to longitude 14°. On the east the 14th parallel of longitude, which nearly bisects Lake Chad, forms the boundary till it meets the south shore of Lake Chad. The Anglo-German frontier of the Kameruns impinges on Chad at the point where the River Jadsaram enters the Lake, and from this point the boundary is formed by a straight line drawn to the intersection of the 6° of latitude, with longitude 9°, deflected only by a circle of 30 miles radius drawn round the town of Yola so as to include it in the British territory.

The frontier between the British and French territories to the west of the Niger was delimited on the ground by Lt.-Col. Lang, R.E., and Major Toutée in 1900. A considerable alteration, however, of the Anglo-French frontier on the north is contemplated under the Convention of the 8th of April, 1904. This frontier was surveyed by the Anglo-French Boundary Commission during 1903-4. Simultaneously the Anglo-German frontier was delimited by Commissioners representing the British and German Governments; but the results of these surveys have not yet received the approval of the Powers. The Protectorate includes the Foulah Empire, of which the Sultan of Sokoto is the head, with its nominal dependencies of Kano, Nupé, Illorin, Muri, Zaria, Adamawa, and Bauchi, together with Idah and the Pagan countries of Borgu to the west of the Niger, Bornu, in the north-east towards Lake Chad, and the belt of Pagan tribes inhabiting the country south of the Benue, and lying between it and the northern frontier of Southern Nigeria. Pagan tribes also inhabit the country enclosed in the bend of the Niger between Ilorin on the west and Southern Nigeria on the south (usually known as the Kabba country), and similar tribes form a more or less continuous belt along the northern and eastern banks of the Niger. The Hausa States of the Foulah Empire are Mohammedi, and are said to have the densest population of any country in the whole African Continent—estimated roughly at about 10 millions. The Foulahs appear to have been a pastoral race, which spread through the territory in the latter half of the 18th century, and conquered the Habe dynasty about 1820. The conquered race, however, maintained their independence in the broken country, and a chronic struggle was kept up which paralysed development, the Foulahs on the one hand devastating large areas by slave raids, and the pagan tribes retaliating by stopping caravans. The area of the Protectorate is about 256,400 square miles. Idah, the point on the Niger where the boundary between Northern and Southern Nigeria crosses the river, is about 200 miles as the crow flies from the mouth of the river, and about half that distance above the last of the creeks which form the mouth of the Niger. Lokoja is some 50 miles further up, and is situated at the junction of the Niger and Benue. Under the Company's administration it formed the military headquarters, and it is now the principal station and garrison with the exception of the headquarters at Zungeru (near the Kaduna River). Jebba (a small island about a mile long by a quarter mile broad) marks the limit of navigation of the Niger, though steamers have with some risk ascended as far as the foot of the rapids at Fort Goldie, some 30 miles further. The Port of Northern Nigeria is the Forcados river mouth in Southern Nigeria, where the Northern Protectorate has a station (at Burutu) for purposes of transhipment of cargo and invalids and passengers arriving and leaving.

At the end of the dry season (at the end of April) and for about three months before, the Niger is only navigable up to the mouth of the Kaduna, and for large steamers only as far as the junction of the Benue at Lokoja.

The Niger Territories generally (that is to say, Northern Nigeria and the country from Idah to the coast, now included in Southern Nigeria) were secured to Great Britain by nearly 500 treaties made by the Royal Niger Company (formerly the National African Company, Limited), and recognised by the three Anglo-German Agreements of June, 1885, June, 1886, and November, 1883, and the Anglo-French Agreement of August, 1890, and June, 1898. The agreements with Germany establish as an eastern frontier a line running from the rapids on the Cross River to a little east of Yola, on the Upper Benue, and thence to a point on the south bank of Lake Chad, 35 minutes east of the meridian of Kuka.
History.

As far back as the 17th century British traders have had mercantile depôts on the mouths of the Niger and adjacent rivers and creeks, known as the Oil rivers, and in these early times the trade was mainly confined to the traffic in slaves. At this epoch the French attempted a settlement at the mouth of the Niger, but were unsuccessful, and during the 18th century British interests preponderated. At the beginning of the 19th century the exploration of the upper river—which had hitherto been supposed to be identical with the Nile or Congo—began, and Mungo Park traced its course from Bamako to Boussa, where he lost his life in the rapids. Lander in 1830 demonstrated the identity of Mungo Park's river at Boussa with the lower Niger, and followed its course to the sea. In the next two decades, 1840-60, efforts were made, both by the British Government and private individuals, as well as by French and German merchants, to develop the trade of the Niger, while our knowledge of the interior was greatly enlarged by the travels of Barth, Clapperton, Allen and others, all British or under British initiation. A consulate was founded at Lokoja, and, at the cost of much money and many lives, some progress seemed to have been made, only to result in failure and fiasco. The pioneer of these efforts was McGregor Laird, who in 1852 began to establish stations and to endeavour to secure the country for England, but these were destroyed by natives, and Laird lost both his money and his life. The good results of his work were not, however, entirely lost. The situation in the early seventies was that there were numerous trading towns—English, French, and German—in the Oil rivers, where the trade in palm oil had begun to assume importance, the imports being chiefly confined to "the vilest of spirits, guns and powder." The expeditions sent by the British Government to the higher river, and the subsidies voted by Parliament, had been withdrawn, and European intercourse with the Niger would have ceased had it not been for the perseverance of four British firms, who during the four months of high water each sent a trading steamer up the river, and soon established a few primitive stations, where the white population of Nigeria lived. These bold pioneers were at the mercy of the powerful chiefs, and gross outrages were from time to time avenged by the despatch of a light draught gunboat. "The rivalry between these firms became so keen, and the importance of turning upon each other the disfavour of the chiefs was so great, that the necessity of white traders holding together for purposes of defence was overlooked."

At the close of 1877, Mr. Goldie-Taubman—now Sir G. Taubman Goldie—visited the Niger and conceived the idea (to quote his own words), "that no lasting advance, either of commerce or civilisation, was possible unless some government were established which would give peace and security both to natives and white men." In other words that amalgamation of interests and a settled government must replace the chaotic rivalry of traders. Recognising that continuity of government on the spot was an impossibility in the climatic conditions of Nigeria, while a government such as that established by Rajah Brooke in Sarawak would not have a secure international basis, Sir George Goldie determined to secure a charter for a British Company. After much negotiation the small British interests, which were the only ones existent on the Niger at that date, were amalgamated in the United African Company in 1879, and in 1881 a charter was applied for. The objection was raised that the capital of the Company was too small, and hence the National African Company was formed with a capital of a million sterling, with the object of opening up direct relations with the great potentates of the interior. With great energy the new company founded stations, sent out a river flotilla, and pushed up the Niger and Benue, but meanwhile the foresight of Gambetta had prompted the establishment of two French Companies, which being backed by the French Government, acquired a great influence on the Lower Niger. Of these the Compagnie du Sénégal had a capital of 600,000l., and some thirty French stations were formed, and while the French flag remained the charter could not, of course, be granted. The energy of Sir George Goldie, however, by lavish presents to chiefs, by the increase of the staff and stations, and by keen competition, secured the disappearance of the French flag just in time to announce at the Berlin Conference in 1885 that the British flag alone flew on the Niger, and to secure to Great Britain the guardianship of the international navigation rights on the Niger—while the French companies and rival British interests which had meantime grown up were absorbed in the National African Company. In April, 1885, a new danger arose from the mission of Herr Flegel to secure treaties with Sokoto and Gandu on behalf of Germany, but he was anticipated by the British Company, who sent out Mr Thomson, and concluded treaties with those powerful emirs.

Great Britain was therefore able to conclude the Agreement of 1886 with Germany, which settled the frontiers between Nigeria and the Kameruns as far north as Yola, and in July, 1886, the long-delayed charter was granted, and the Company changed its title to that of the Royal Niger Company. Meanwhile the territories adjacent to the river had been placed under British protection.

The next decade was spent in building up an elaborate organisation, in extending the sphere acquired, and in checking inter-tribal war, pagan sacrifices and slave-raiding. The expeditions of Monteil to Lake Chad from the west, of Crampnel from the south-east, and of Mizon by way of the Niger and Benue, were checkmated, and finally, in 1890, an agreement was arrived at with France by which the line dividing the French Sudan on the north from Nigeria was drawn with certain deflections from Say, on the Niger, to Barua, on Lake Chad, and in 1893 the Kamerun boundary was extended from Yola to the south of the same lake. Its international difficulties being for the moment less acute, the Company was able to face the great internal danger which for years had threatened its existence. In 1897 the growing hostility of the great Foulah Power culminated in a plan to drive the white men out of the country. The Company had been quietly preparing, and had brought their military force to a high standard of efficiency, and they took the field (Sir George Goldie himself being present in person) with some 500 or 600 well-drilled soldiers, led by about 30 British officers, against 20,000 or 30,000 of the enemy, of whom a large proportion were Foulah cavalry. Nupé, the vast dependency of Sokoto, which had thus challenged the Company's existence, was divided by the Niger into
two nearly equal halves. The rapidity of the Company's movements gave no time to Sokoto to raise additional armies, and Southern Nupe was first conquered, and then Northern Nupe after a two days' fight before the capital at Bida. Illorin, a smaller dependency, was next subdued. Prior to this Southern Nupé had been partially cleared of the Foulah slave raiders, and on the 20th June, 1897, the legal status of slavery in the Niger Territories was declared abolished by the Company. Simultaneously with this crisis another, which was to have far-reaching effects, arose. The only indeterminate frontier remaining was that to the west. The Company perceiving, in 1894, that French enterprise contemplated the annexation to Senegal and Dahomey of the Borgu country, sent out Capt. F. D. Lugard to negotiate treaties with the king or chiefs of that country. Anticipating the powerful French expeditions by only a few days, he succeeded in making treaties at the capital of Nikki, and with other semi-independent chiefs of districts. Disregarding these prior British treaties, a swarm of French expeditions spread over Borgu, and having obtained a pledge from our Government that Sir George Goldie's powerful expedition, then in the field against the Foulahs, should not advance N. of 9°, they invaded Bousa, with which we had a specific treaty of many years' standing, and established themselves on the Niger at several points. At the end of 1897, in view of this situation, the British Government decided to raise a local force, and the task was confided to Colonel F. D. Lugard, who left England in March, 1898. After a period of great tension, during which the British and French troops faced each other, and a conflict was daily imminent, a convention was signed (June 14th) laying down a boundary line from the intersection of the 9th parallel with the frontier of Dahomey to Illo on the Niger, and thence to the northern frontier, which was more accurately defined, to Lake Chad, and to its junction with the German Kameruns frontier. Meanwhile the great internal source of danger had been removed by the breaking of the Foulah power, while the army of the conquering chief Rabah, which had penetrated from the Nile Valley to Lake Chad, and had conquered Bornu, was arrested in its onward march to Kano by the news of the Company's victories, and had returned to the south of Lake Chad, where the British, French and German territories converged. The Imperial force, called the West African Frontier Force, with a "Commissioner and Commandant" at its head, and independent of the Company, was quartered in the country, with its headquarters at Jebba, and with numerous detachments holding the posts evacuated by the French throughout Borgu, and a strong garrison at Lokoja. This force consisted of two battalions of infantry, two batteries of artillery and a sapper company. It was raised and organised by Colonel Lugard, with Lieut.-Colonel Willcocks, C.M.G., D.S.O., as second in command, and consisted equally of Hausas and Yorubas. The battalions had a nominal establishment of 1,200 rank and file each. The R.A. mustered 175, and the Sappers 46. The complement of officers, Infantry and R.A., was 66, with 106 British N.C.O.'s. Eight doctors, with 14 N.C.O.'s, R.A.M.C., and three female nurses, formed the Medical Staff. The Transport numbered four white men, and the Accounts five, the R.E. one officer and five N.C.O.'s, making a total of 217 white men and close on 2,700 natives. It was constituted on a basis of active service as "in military occupation of a foreign country," and its constitution, movements, and discipline were effected and controlled by means of "Frontier Force Orders," by the Commandant.

The Royal Niger Company had, from its earliest origin, set its face against the importation of trade liquor, and had imposed in the Delta area, where alone the import was allowed, a higher duty than in the neighbouring "Niger Coast Protectorate." This had, of course, led to smuggling by natives, who, moreover, could not understand the arbitrary frontiers fixed by latitudes and longitudes, while the middle-men, who had in past years controlled the trade of the interior, were exasperated by the loss of their accustomed profits. This culminated in January, 1895, in an attack by the natives of Brass upon the Company's station at Akassa, resulting in great loss of life and destruction of property. The British Government sent a punitive expedition against the town of Brass, and 20,000l. was paid as indemnity to the Company. Sir J. Kirk, K.C.B., G.C.M.G., was sent out as special commissioner to report on the causes which led to this outrage, and to make recommendations, and it was decided that the charter should be revoked, and that the administrative rights and powers of the Royal Niger Company should be transferred to the Crown. Steps to this end were taken at the end of 1898, when the negotiations with the French Government had been disposed of, and the transfer took place on January 1st, 1900. The terms of the arrangement made between Her Majesty's Government and the Company are given in the Parliamentary paper C. 9372. The Company was subsequently organised as a trading company under the name of "The Niger Company, Limited."

In 1902 Colonel Morland conducted an expedition as far as Lake Chad, as a result of which Bornu was brought under the administration, and early in 1903 with a force of about 800 took Kano, without any very serious fighting, and occupied Sokoto and Katsena.

The delimitations of the German and French boundaries are in progress.

**Constitution.**

In connection with the transfer to the Crown, an Order in Council was issued at the end of 1899, constituting the "Protectorate of Northern Nigeria," over the territories of the Royal Niger Co., with the exception of a portion of them, stretching from Iddo to the coast, which by a contemporaneous instrument was incorporated in the Niger Coast Protectorate, and with those territories was named the "Protectorate of Southern Nigeria."

The government of the Royal Niger Company was conducted chiefly from England by the Governor and Council, who initiated all legislation. The same body revised the sentences of the Supreme Court, which was set up at Asaba, the capital, and which consisted of two judges, who alternately served in Africa. Three senior executive officers had the general administration of the divisions of the country under the control of the Agents-General, Mr. W. Wallace, C.M.G., and Mr. J. Flint, C.M.G. Sub-divisions of districts were under the control of district officers, who held small cause courts. A civil gaol under a governor was erected at Asaba.

In the new administration a High Commissioner has been appointed, and the Protectorate is divided into 18 Provinces, each under a Resident, with assistants. There is a Supreme
Court with original and appellate jurisdiction, the Residents, who are entrusted with large powers, holding "Provincial Courts." The Chief Justice is ex officio a puisne judge of the Supreme Court of S. Nigeria, while the Chief Justice and puisne judges of S. Nigeria are ex-officio puisne judges of the Supreme Court of Northern Nigeria. An Attorney-General acts as legal adviser to the Government. There is no Legislative or Executive Council, and the High Commissioner has power to make laws under the name "Proclamations."

The 1st and 2nd foot, and 3rd mounted infantry battalions Northern Nigeria Regiment, West African Frontier Force, are the military force of the Protectorate, under the command of Col. A. W. G. Lowry Cole, D.S.O.; Lt.-Col. J. Hasler, second in command; Lt.-Cols. C. W. Barlow, D.S.O., C. M. Dobell, D.S.O., and F. H. G. Cuncliffe command the three battalions.

In Sept., 1902, the head-quarters of Government were removed from Jebba to Zungeru. A light railway has been constructed from Barijuko on the Kaduna river to Zungeru (22 miles).

Climate and Products.

The lower portion of the Territories in the Niger delta has a bad reputation for its climate. In this region are produced the palm oil and palm kernels which form a large portion of the exports from the Territories.

The regions further inland are stated to be much healthier, except in the Niger Valley, while their principal products are palm oil, rubber, hides, ground nuts, shea butter, ivory, chillies, and various drugs.

The chief imports are cotton goods, earthenware, hardware, powder, salt, silks, and woollen goods. The importation of rifles, breech-loading guns, cartridges, etc., is prohibited as articles of trade, as also is the importation of spirits. The duties are only on imports, and are collected at the coast by Lagos and S. Nigeria, the latter making a contribution to the revenues of N. Nigeria.

Finance.

| Year | Local Revenue | Grant-in-aid | Contributions from S. Nigeria | Expenditure |
|------|---------------|--------------|------------------------------|-------------|
| 1903-4 | 53,727l. | 405,000l. | 50,000l. | 508,727l. |
| 1904-5 | 94,026l. | 405,500l. | 60,000l. | 559,526l. |
| 1905-6 | 110,202l. | 320,000l. | 75,000l. | 505,202l. |

Means of Communication.

Lagos is connected with London by cable, and a telegraph line was constructed in 1897-98 from Lagos to Jebba, and has been extended to Lokoja, and thence to Ibi on the Benue. The telegraph line has also been carried to Zungeru, thence through Zaria to Bauchi and Karo, also through Konlayora and Yelwa to Sokoto. The line up the Benue has been continued through Amar to Yola on the German border.

Regular steamers arrive and depart from Liverpool and the West Coast of Africa every week. Communication in the Niger Basin is mainly by the Government Flotilla to the steamers of the Niger Company.

Civil Establishment.

High Commissioner (temporary), Lieut.-Col. Sir E. P. C. Girouard, K.C.M.G., D.S.O., R.E., 3,000l., and duty allowance 1,000l.

Intelligence Officer, Capt. H. N. Kempthorne, 400l. to 500l., by 20l., duty 48l.

Chief Assistant, F. F. Hopkins, 400l. to 500l., by 20l.

Assistant, W. K. Fraser, 300l. to 400l., by 15l.

Secretary's Office.

Secretary, M. H. de la Poer Beresford, I.S.O., 600l. to 700l., by 25l., and duty allowance 100l.

Chief Assistant Secretary, G. R. Matthews, 400l. to 500l., by 20l.

Assistant Secretaries, B. Hodges, E. W. Cocks, 300l. to 400l., by 15l.; W. Scott Evans, G. O. Nugent, 300l. to 350l., by 10l.

Political.

Senior Resident, W. Wallace, C.M.G., 1,300l., duty 400l.

Five First Class Residents, W. P. Hewby, C.M.G., Major J. A. Burdon, C.M.G., Dr. F. Cargill, C.M.G., C. L. Temple, 700l. to 800l., by 25l., duty 200l.

Eleven Second Class Residents, P. M. Dwyer, Major W. S. Sharpe, C.M.G., H. S. Goldsmith, Capt. F. H. Ruxton, Capt. H. D. Larymore, C.M.G., Hon. O. Howard, G. N. Barclay, Major J. E. C. Blakeney, Capt. C. W. Orr, D.S.O., Major A. W. McClintock, D.S.O., W. F. Gowers, 550l. to 650l., by 20l., duty 100l.

Eighteen Third Class Residents, Major A. H. Festing, C.M.G., D.S.O., J. R. Lumley, H. Kemble, G. W. Webster, J. A. Ley-Greaves, Capt. E. H. Lewis, Capt. G. Anderson, Capt. Hamilton Browne, J. M. Freemantle, F. B. Gall, E. C. Duff, K. V. Elphinstone, Hon. E. J. Stanley, H. Vischer, E. J. Arnett, 450l. to 550l., by 20l.

Sixty-Four Assistant Residents, F. Dwyer, H. B. Ryan, G. Malcolm, E. M. Dupigny, C. O. Migeod, A. B. Lethbridge, J. C. P. Sciortino, H. N. Lafone, Lieut. B. A. Rice, G. N. Virtue, H. B. Bradshaw, Capt. I. H. G. White, H. L. Houligate, Capt. W. M. Mathew, Capt. H. Harbord, D. Cator, G. F. Phillips, A. Covey, H. R. Palmer, H. L. N. Smith, J. Finch, J. W. Gill, R. McAllister, H. E. C. Walcott, W. B. Thomson, H. S. Berkeley, M. L. Liddard, H. de C. Matthews, H. S. W. Edwardes, H. W. Pecbles, B. D. Byfield, A. C. Francis, C. C. Yates, Capt. C. V. Boyle, D. H. Lang, A. C. G. Hastings, S. M. Grier, G. W. H. Neville, P. Lonsdale, Capt. H. D. Foulkes, Lieut. B. C. M. Waters, A. C. Irons, P. A. Benton, C. E. Cuningham, M. P. Porch, D. A. Vanvenen, T. F. Carlyle, Capt. T. W. P. Dyer, G. S. Browne, Capt. C. A. Booth, G. E. P. Thesiger, C. Wightwick, and G. Seccombe.
Cantonment Magistrates and Freed Slaves Home.

Three Third Class Residents as Cantonment Magistrates, G. Ormsby, Capt. C. F. Rowe and Capt. A. W. Jones, 400l. to 500l. by 20l.

Legal and Judicial.

Chief Justice, Sir M. R. Menendez, 1,000l. to 1,200l. by 50l.
Attorney-General, E. C. Watson, 500l. to 600l. by 25l., duty 60l.
Solicitor-General, E. V. Parodi, 400l. to 500l. by 25l.

Treasury.

Treasurer, S. T. Harrison, 600l. to 700l. by 25l., and duty 100l.
Chief Assistant Treasurer, J. H. D. Bratt, 400l. to 500l. by 20l.
Eight Assistant Treasurers, Cecil Gwyn, C. V. Loughland, T. B. Phillips, C. L. Anderson, C. A. Cunningham, F. G. Bagnall, 300l. to 400l. by 15l., J. M. Stewart, F. C. McDermott, 250l. to 350l. by 15l. Personal to Mr. Gwyn, 100l., duty 60l.; personal to Mr. Loughland, 50l., duty 60l.

Postal and Telegraphs.

Postmaster-General, J. Somerville, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty 48l.
Assistant Postmaster-General, H. M. Wooley, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.
Accountant, E. L. Roberson, 300l. to 350l. by 10l.
Mechanician, G. Baillie, 250l. to 300l. by 10l.
Inspectors, C. Gold, J. Hollingworth, C. Hare, J. E. Hunt, A. E. Dawson, 250l. to 300l. by 10l.

Medical.

P. M. O., Dr. S. W. Thompstone, C.M.G., 1,000l. to 1,200l. by 50l.
Deputy P. M. O., W. H. Langley, C.M.G., 700l. to 800l., duty for acting P. M. O., 100l.
Three Senior Medical Officers, J. Tichborne, E. A. Chartres, F. Manning, 600l. to 700l. by 20l.; duty for two, including D. P. M. O., 60l.
Medical Officers, H. G. Lewer, F. W. Chesnaye, C. E. S. Watson, H. P. Lobb, C. F. Watson, M. C. Blair, W. G. Hall, E. C. Adams, J. H. Patterson, B. Flood, M. W. Manuk, A. Brenner, D. Alexander, J. Davidson, G. R. Twomey, A. C. Parsons, M. F. Ellis, G. T. Whyte, H. G. McKinney, K. McGahey, C. T. Costello, G. B. Norman, J. M. Dalziel, R. F. Williams, P. G. Temple, W. D. Innes, J. Thorp-Waite, H. A. Foy, A. J. T. Swann, G. J. Pirie, B. Moiser, 400l. to 500l. by 20l.

Audit.

Auditor, W. W. Woods, 400l. to 500l. by 20l.
Assistant Auditor, J. C. Fisher, 300l.

Constabulary and Prisons.

Commissioner and Sheriff, Major A. Bain, 600l. to 700l. by 25l., duty 96l.
Assistant Commissioners, Capt. A. E. Johnson, D.S.O., Capt. J. D. L. Golding, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty 48l.
Staff Officers, Capt. A. J. N. Tremearne, Capt. J. F. N. Price, 350l. to 450l. by 15l.

Twenty-five District Superintendents of Constabulary, Capt. F. S. Merrick, W. M. Fowler, Capt. A. G. Uniacke, F. A. Godwin, E. H. B. Laing, Capt. A. C. Aglionby, F. W. Soper, R. G. Bracken, J. Chartres, J. M. Johns, Capt. R. F. Ellis, Capt. E. A. Brackenbury, Capt. E. C. Bryant, Capt. W. G. Esmonde, A. H. D. Paul, Capt. G. Burside, H. F. Pickwood, Capt. P. Grant, Major F. Edgar, Capt. J. ff. Hopkinson, Capt. N. Riggs, E. W. Dix, J. Radcliffe, N.W. F. Baynes, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.
Keeper of Gaols, W. la Chard, 250l. to 350l. by 15l.
Assistant Keepers of Gaols, P. Merron, W. G. F. Chambers, 250l. to 300l. by 10l.

Marine.

Marine Superintendent, Lieut. C. Elliott, R.N.R., 500l. to 600l. by 25l., and duty allowance 50l.
Deputy Marine Superintendent, Lieut. R. M. Reynold, R.N.R., 400l. to 500l. by 20l.
Senior Assistant Marine Superintendent, A. H. Cheke, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.
Assistant Marine Superintendents, P. J. Doyle, N. F. Cronstedt, 250l. to 300l. by 10l.
Accountants, G. F. Gabbett, S. Ray, 250l. to 310l. by 10l. Personal to Mr. Gabbett, 90l.
Senior Master, R. N. Pyk, 200l. to 300l. by 10l.
Chief Storekeeper, J. F. Hill, 400l., duty 60l.

Engineer's Workshops.

Superintendent Workshops, E. Hammond, 300l. to 400l. by 15l., duty 48l.

Customs.

Customs Officer, G. E. H. Migeod, 400l. to 500l. by 20l.
Assistant ditto, G. R. Wingate, 350l. to 400l. by 15l.

Botanical and Forestry.

Conservator of Forests, W. R. Elliott, 450l. to 550l. by 20l.
One Assistant ditto (vacant), 300l. to 400l. by 15l.

Mineral Survey.

Director, J. D. Falconer, 700l.
Assistant,
2nd Assistant, T. Crook, 200l.

Public Works.

Director, J. Eaglesome, C.M.G., 800l. to 1,000l. by 50l., and duty allowance 100l.
Three Executive Engineers, A. C. Ridgale, F. H. Longhurst, E. Lloyd-Williams, 500l. to 700l. by 20l.
Two District Engineers, F. R. O'Neill, R. A. Lloyd, 400l. to 500l. by 20l.
Surveyor, J. Scott, 500l. to 600l. by 20l.
Three Accountants, F. A. Marquis, A. P. Tomsett, F. H. H. Graves, 250l. to 350l. by 10l.

Transport.

Chief Transport Officer, Lieut. A. L. Ross, 400l., and duty allowance 96l.
Senior Transport Officer, Capt. D. A. Wallbach, 450l., duty 60l.
Transport Officers, Lieut. M. Neill, Capt. G. Condon, 350l. to 450l. by 15l., duty 60l.
Assistant Transport Officers, F. R. Ricketts, A. Lucking, 250l. to 310l. by 10l.
Veterinary Officer, Lieut. R. Porteous, 350l. to 450l. by 15l., duty 60l.
