TRISTAN DA CUNHA.

Tristan da Cunha and Gough Island are the principal of a group of islands lying in lat. 37° 6' S. long., 12° 2' W. It was taken possession of by a military force during the residence of Napoleon at St. Helena. Upon his death the garrison was withdrawn, with the exception of three men, who, with certain shipwrecked sailors, became the founders of the present settlement. For a long time only one of the settlers had a wife, but subsequently the others contracted with a sea captain to bring them wives from St. Helena. The population, when the island was visited in November, 1901, by one of H.M. ships, was found to be only 74 (18 families). It remains practically stationary, as the younger and more ambitious settlers migrate in batches to the Cape. The inhabitants practically enjoy their possessions in common, and there is no strong drink on the island, and no crime. It was at one time proposed to give them laws and a regular government, but this was found unnecessary for the above reasons, and they remain under the moral rule of their oldest inhabitant.

The inhabitants are spoken of as long-lived, healthy, moral, religious, and hospitable to strangers. A supply of stores and provisions was provided out of a grant voted by Parliament, and sent out by a man-of-war in 1886, nearly all the able-bodied men having been drowned while attempting to board a vessel in December, 1885.

In the way of live stock, the inhabitants have between them about 500 head of cattle, about 600 sheep, about 50 pigs, and an abundance of poultry. Potatoes do well, and a good crop is got annually. Apple trees and peach trees are in fair number, and bear well; there are also a few fig trees, but they do not fruit. The tree of the island, which apparently is a juniper, and upon which the islanders are dependent for their wood for fuel, is getting scarce in the neighbourhood of settlement, but is abundant further off, and there is no fear of supply failing. Communication with passing vessels had, in 1901, become rather more frequent of late; in twelve months about eight vessels were communicated with. The islanders have in all five boats—the whaler supplied by Government in 1897, and four small canvas whale boats made by themselves. The proverbial good health of the islanders continues; and any such thing as real sickness remains unknown.

---

OTHER MISCELLANEOUS POSSESSIONS.

