SWAZILAND.

Situation and Area.

Swaziland is bounded on the North, West, and South by the Transvaal, and on the East by Portuguese territory and Tongaland, now part of the Natal Province.

Its area is 6,678 square miles.

Description and Climate.

The territory is divided geographically into three longitudinal regions.

The mountainous region on the West approximates an altitude of over 4,000 feet.

What is known as the Middle Veld is some 2,000 feet lower, while the Low Veld, bounded on the East by the Lebombo Mountains, attains an average altitude of not more than 1,000 feet. The first two regions are remarkably well watered. Innumerable small streams unite with the large rivers which traverse the country from West to East; except for these the Low Veld is not very well watered, though bore holes put down recently by private enterprise have revealed the existence of underground supplies of water at several places.

Swaziland is on the whole, very healthy, but in common with other parts of similar country in South Africa, malaria is prevalent in the Low Veld during some of the summer months.

Mbabane, the headquarters of the Administration, is situated on the hills at an altitude of 4,000 feet, and Bremerstorp, the old capital, is on the Middle Veld. Other European centres are the Government Stations at Hlatikulu, Mankaiana, Stegi and Pigg's Peak.

Native History.

The Swazis are an allied race to the Zulus and speak the same language, with minor modifications. According to themselves the tribe lived originally in Southern Tongaland, from whence they migrated about 300 years ago to the Tshilweni country, that is the country to the West of the Uvombo Range, between the Pongolo and the Great Usutu Rivers. Here they remained until 1815 when being attacked by Zwide, Chief of the Ndawane, the major portion of the tribe under their chief Sobhuza, better known as Somhlolo, fled north and settled near the present site of Bremerstorp. The petty tribes or clans of Baroswi, Bavenda or Bapodi origin then in occupation of Swaziland North of the Great Usutu, were conquered and absorbed. Under Sobhuza and his successor Mswazi, they occupied territory up to Barberton in the North and extending towards Carolina and Ermelo on the West, while the tribes occupying what is now the Lydenburg District also paid tribute to the Swazi King.

The Swazis are known to themselves and other native tribes as the Ama-Ngwane, that is, the people of Ngwane, one of their early Chiefs, and the country as Kwa-Ngwane, the land of Ngwane. After their flight to the North they were never seriously disturbed, though they were occasionally raided by Zulu tribes from the South, especially after the death of Dingana, who was killed by a Swazi Impi on the Southern border, after his defeat by the Boers and his brother Mpande. Subsequently through the good offices of Sir Theophilus Shepstone (Somtseu) amicable relations subsisted with Mpande, the Zulu King and his successor Cetywayo. In 1879 the Swazis lent assistance to the British in the war against Sekukuni, but took no part in the Zulu War. Through the possession of secret medicines, used in the propitiation of the spirits of ancestral
Chiefs, the Swazi Chiefs hold a pre-eminent position as rain makers. The native Government consisted of the King and his Council, made up of the Malangeni, the Chiefs of royal blood, and the Chief indunas of the tribe. The assistance of the witchdoctors was called in whenever necessary, to communicate with the spirits of departed Chiefs and to clean the country of sorcerers and other doers of evil. A military system of trained regiments on the lines formulated by Dingiswayo and Tshaka was adopted, mainly no doubt as a defence against the Zulus.

In the year 1846 Mswazi ceded whatever rights he had in the Lydenburg District to the Lydenburg Republic. Subsequently he, and later, Mbandeni, entered into agreements purporting to cede the whole of the territory to that Republic and to its successor the late South African Republic. These later cessions were in fact nullified by the Conventions of 1881 and 1884 entered into between Great Britain and the Republic though the boundaries of the Transvaal laid down in the 1881 Convention constituted a considerable encroachment on what was claimed to be Swazi Territory.

Sobhuza the son of Bhunu, is now heir apparent. He has not yet been installed as Paramount Chief and during his minority his grandmother Labotibeni has acted as Queen Regent of the nation. She is officially styled the Chief Regent and by her own people is given the title of "Ndhlovukazi" or the Cow Elephant. She is assisted by Lomvanzi her son, who was nominated by the Council to act as Regent during the minority of the heir, and by other leading chiefs who have in the past acted in a similar capacity, during the minority of preceding chiefs.

European Settlement.

During the eighties the King "Mbandini" in return for money and other payments granted concessions for various periods. Every conceivable right was granted away, not only for land, minerals, grazing, and timber, but also for all imaginable purposes, including exemption from taxes, for railways, telegraphs, mining patents, collection of the King's revenue, trading, etc. All unallotted land and minerals also formed the subject of concessions.

In 1888 a charter of self-government was granted to the whites in the country. Later, in 1890, under a Convention between the British Government and the South African Republic, a provisional Government was, with the consent of the Swazis, set up, consisting of a Government Committee composed of representatives of those two Powers, and a representative of the Swazis, a Government Secretary, Attorney General and other officials and of a Chief Court. This Court adjudicated on the initial validity of all concessions granted by the King, and, with a few exceptions, confirmed the grants in respect of such initial validity.

In accordance with pledges given to the Government of the South African Republic the provisional Administration came to an end three years later, when the British Government signed a fresh Convention, which permitted the South African Republic to acquire from the Regent and her Council an Organic Proclamation conferring on the South African Republic rights of jurisdiction, legislation and administration without incorporation in the South African Republic. The Swazis refused to sign the Organic Proclamation which had been drafted for them, and accordingly its provisions, with some of those in the 1893 Convention, were embodied in the final Convention of 1894, under which the South African Republic exercised powers of protection, legislation, jurisdiction and administration in Swaziland, subject to the limitations of the Convention.

On the conquest of the Transvaal, all the rights and powers of the late South African Republic passed to His Majesty, but since the other party to the Convention of 1894 had disappeared without the limitations therein, an Order in Council under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act was issued in June, 1903, providing that the Governor of the Transvaal should administer Swaziland, and conferring on him the right to legislate by Proclamation.

On the cessation of hostilities a British Special Commissioner, with a small force of South African Constabulary, was sent into the country, and a provisional Administration was established.

In accordance with the powers granted to him, the Governor issued a Proclamation in 1904 providing for administration and for dealing with the concessions question. The Laws of the Transvaal in force at the date of the Proclamation were applied to Swaziland, mutatis mutandis. Courts were established with the rights of appeal to the Supreme Court of the Transvaal, and an appeal was permitted from the decisions of the chiefs in civil matter to the Court of the Resident Magistrate. The chiefs were otherwise confirmed in their civil jurisdiction over natives, subject to the exclusion of usages incompatible with the due exercise of His Majesty's power and jurisdiction, or clearly injurious to the welfare of the natives.

The Commission constituted under the Proclamation of 1904 to deal with the concessions examined the concessions granting the exclusive rights, except exclusive rights to land and minerals, with a view to their expropriation at their value prior to the commencement of hostilities. The Commission reported in 1906, and the concessions, the subject of its report, were, with few exceptions, expropriated. The Commission subsequently dealt with the question of boundaries of land, mineral and grazing concessions. The general survey of these concessions, necessary to determine the conflicting rights, was also completed. Under the concessions Partition Proclamation issued in 1907 land and grazing concessions were subjected to a deduction of one-third of their area for the sole and exclusive use and occupation of the natives of Swaziland and the remaining two-thirds were freed from such occupation subject to the provision that for five years from July 1st, 1909, no natives actually resident on such land could be compelled to move therefrom but after that period they could only continue to occupy such land on terms to be agreed upon between themselves and the concessionaires. These Agreements are subject to confirmation by the Resident Commissioner. Proclamation No. 24 of 1913 provided simple and effective machinery for the removal of natives from concessions after the period of five years had elapsed. This took place in 1914 and there was no large movement of natives from concessions. Those who desired to move did so voluntarily and the remainder made terms with the concessionaires and remained on the farms. In no instance has it been necessary forcibly to eject any native family from a concession.

Of the total area of Swaziland, 4,274,014 acres, 1,635,774 acres have been set aside for the
exclusive use of the Swazis and they have, in addition, acquired by purchase, 77,076 acres.

By an Order in Council, dated 1st December, 1906, the control of Swaziland was transferred from the Governor of the Transvaal to the High Commissioner for South Africa. Under the Order in Council the High Commissioner issued a Proclamation in March, 1907, providing for the appointment of a Resident Commissioner, a Government Secretary, Assistant Commissioners and the establishment of a Police Force. The Laws of the Transvaal were re-enacted, mutatis mutandis, and, except where modified by Statute, the Roman-Dutch Common Law was put in force by the Proclamation. A special Court, having the full jurisdiction of a Superior Court, was established together with Courts of Assistant Commissioners with a limited jurisdiction.

The paramount chief and other chiefs were confirmed in their Civil Jurisdiction over natives subject to appeal to the Resident Commissioner. Provision was made for the Swaziland Deeds Office and Surveyor-General's Office to remain at Pretoria under control of the officers responsible prior to the date of the Proclamation.

Population.

The population of Swaziland, according to the census of 1911, was 1,083 whites and 98,876 coloured.

Religion and Education.

The Anglican Church, the Roman Catholic Church, The South Africa General Mission, the Scandinavian Alliance Mission, the African Methodist Episcopal Mission, the Wesleyan Methodist Mission, the Independent Methodist Mission, the Pentecostal Church of the Nazarene, and the American International Holiness Union have representatives in the country.

The Administration has established a native school at Zombodze, the kraal of the Regent, at which, until recently, the young paramount chief was educated. The Government also maintains nine schools for European children at various centres, and makes annual grants to the various native missions which undertake native education.

Industries, Agriculture & Trade.

Mining in Swaziland is carried out under the authority of Concessions granted by the late King Mbandeni. Tin is found in payable quantities in the vicinity of Mbabane. Gold Mining was carried on for some years at the Pigg's Peak and other mines, but, owing to the increased cost of this class of mining all work has ceased for the present. The Crown owns a few mineral areas, and legal provision has been made for the exploitation of these by the public in the event of payable minerals being discovered.

Output of Tin.

| Year | Tons | Value (£) |
|------|------|----------|
| 1918-19 | 480 | 756,870 |
| 1919-20 | 449 | 66,676 |

Gold.

Valued at £29,595

There are approximately 160,000 head of horned stock, and 250,000 native sheep and goats in the territory. Cattle ranching on a large scale has been in operation for some years. The Natalia Ranch has about 10,000 head of cattle and approximately 100 imported pure bred and 70 grade bulls and has under cultivation about 500 acres of mealies. Ranches Limited have about 5,000 head of cattle, 50 imported pure bred and 50 grade bulls.

The Coal Mines Ranch has about 5,000 head of cattle. Several other farmers have herds of cattle ranging from 1,000 to 3,000 head. The young stock from the imported bulls on the Ranches show a very marked improvement on the local cattle.

The stock is fat all the year round and fat oxen can be put on the market in the winter and spring without any artificial feeding.

Dipping of all cattle is consistently carried out and diseases of stock are not more virulent here than elsewhere in South Africa. The East Coast fever disease has now almost been eradicated.

Approximately 300,000 sheep (Merinos) are brought in from the Transvaal high veld for winter grazing but this class of sheep has not so far been farmed in the Territory otherwise.

From an agricultural point of view farming is assuming some importance owing mainly to the grant on easy terms of allotments of Crown Land to European settlers.

Maize is the staple product but cotton is likely to be grown extensively in the future in suitable localities. Tobacco is also a paying crop and many portions of the Territory have been favourably reported on for citrus and sub-tropical fruits. At present, in the absence of a railway, no sufficient market exists for products of this nature. The Swazis grow the usual native crops but in insufficient quantity to feed themselves. Efforts are however being made to improve their methods.

No statistics of the imports into and the exports from Swaziland are now kept. By an agreement with the Government of the Union of South Africa, Swaziland is dealt with, for Customs purposes, as a part of the Union. Payments due to Swaziland are assessed on the proportions which the average of the collections for the three years ended March 31st, 1910, bear to the total customs collections of the Union in each year. The imports consist principally of maize, flour, groceries, wearing apparel, hardware, spirits, tobacco, and kaffir truck; while the principal export in Cassiterite tin.

There are branches of the National Bank of South Africa, Limited, at Mbabane, and Hlatikulu, as also a Post Office Savings Bank at Mbabane. The currency is British.

Stores exist where necessary to serve the needs of the population, but the volume of trade is small.

The War.

The Swazis sent a small number of men to France with the Labour Battalion. They also collected and transmitted to the King as a War gift the sum of £3,000 for which two Aeroplanes, suitably inscribed were purchased by direction of His Majesty. Their attitude during the war has been loyal.

Amongst the Europeans practically every eligible man of British birth able to get away has done service. Casualties fortunately were few in proportion to the number at the front. War Funds were also well supported, and in addition a troop for service in South West Africa was horsed by public subscription.

Revenue and Expenditure.

The revenue and expenditure for the two years ended March 31st, 1920, was:

| Year | Revenue (£) | Expenditure (£) |
|------|------------|----------------|
| 1918-19 | 72,447     | 81,197         |
| 1919-20 | 91,801     | 87,073         |
The public debt on March 31st, 1919, was £92,500l for the repayment of which provision has been made through the medium of a sinking fund.

Swaziland Administration Establishment.

Resident Commissioner, De S. M. G. Honey, C.M.G., 1,200l., and 380l. travelling and subsistence allowance.

Deputy Resident Commissioner and Government Secretary, B. Nicholson, D.S.O., M.C., 900l., personal allowance, 100l.

Chief Clerk, L. J. Puttick, 510l.

Record Clerk, C. G. Leary, M.C., 305l.

Clerk attached to the High Commissioner's Office, J. R. Armstrong, 315l.

Financial Secretary, L. G. Luscombe, 590l.

Assistant Accountant (acting), R. Blanchard, 365l.

Clerk, J. Hope, 200l.

Assistant Commissioner, Mbabane District, B. H. Warner, B.A., 700l. and 150l. horse and travelling allowance.

Clerks, H. W. Boast, 330l., horse and travelling allowance 50l.; A. H. B. Hoare, 200l., horse and travelling allowance 50l.

Guider, H. O'Farrell, 310l.

Resident Justice of the Peace, Bremersdorp, S. B. Williams, 365l., and 100l. horse and travelling allowance.

Assistant Commissioner, Mankaiana District, D. H. Harvey, 570l., and 150l. horse and travelling allowance.

Clerk, H. W. Russell, 245l. and 50l. horse and travelling allowance.

Assistant Commissioner, Hlatikulu District, A. G. Marwick, 800l., and 150l. travelling and subsistence allowance, and 100l. personal allowance.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner and Clerk, H. B. A. McCarter, 475l., horse and travelling allowance 100l.

Clerk, A. E. Pasea, 260l., horse and travelling allowance 50l.

Clerk, A. W. Walters, 210l.

Assistant Commissioner, Peak District, Lt.-Col. C. R. I. R. Garner, 800l., and 150l. horse and travelling allowance.

Clerk, E. Lewell, M.C., 240l., horse and travelling allowance 50l.

Assistant Commissioner, Ubombo District (acting) T. A. F. Steward, 560l., and 150l. horse and travelling allowance, 100l. climatic allowance.

Clerk, H. P. M. Fitzpatrick, 285l., horse and travelling allowance 50l.; climatic allowance 55l.

Auditor, A. Warren.

Judicial.

Special Court of Swaziland: President, G. T. Morice, K.C.; Members, The Resident Commissioner, The Deputy Resident Commissioner, and five District Assistant Commissioners.

Master, Registrar and Sheriff, W. W. Usher, 360l., also Deputy Assistant Commissioner, Mbabane District.

Crown Prosecutor, C. T. Blakeway (Advocate).

Medical Department.

Principal Medical Officer, R. Jamison, F.R.C.S., 640l., and 225l. horse and travelling allowance.

Assistant Medical Officer, Hlatikulu, Capt. G. O'N. Waddington, 380l. and 150l. horse and travelling allowance.

Hospital Assistant, Mbabane, J. Anderson, 200l.

Hospital Assistant, Waukaiana, H. R. Barnard, 310l.

Veterinary Department.

Principal Veterinary Officer, W. A. Elder, F.R.C.V.S., 640l., and 150l. horse and travelling allowance; also draws a special horse allowance of 75l. during eradication of East Coast Fever.

Six Stock Inspectors, 3 at 320l., 1 at 310l., 2 at 300l.

Educational Department.

Teachers, Mrs. I. I. Fanner, 180l.; Miss D. Lewis, 91l.; Miss A. Maritz, 160l.; J. Greenewald, 350l.; Mrs. van Aswegan, 170l.; Mrs. S. Maritz, 224l.; J. C. Breytenbach, 200l.; Miss H. S. A. du Plessis, 120l.; P. Erasmus, 190l.; Miss A. Prinsloo, 110l.; Miss M. Whitelaw, 150l.; Miss J. Grobler, 120l.; Rev. J. J. Xaba, 180l.; Native Teachers, 4 at 120l., 1 at 100l., 1 at 72l., 1 at 62l.

Matron, Zombode School, Mrs. E. Xaba, 60l.

Inspector of Education, F. H. Dutton.

Police.

Assistant Commissioner Commanding Police, Major C. H. Gilson, D.S.O., 800l., and 150l., horse and travelling allowance, and 100l. personal allowance.

Capt. G. D. Roberts, 430l., and 100l. horse and travelling allowance.

Sub-Inspector, T. W. Vine, D.C.M., 380l., and 100l. horse and travelling allowance.

Superintendent, M. Hinds, 300l.

4 European Sergeants, each 240l. by 10l. to 280l.

7 European Corporals, each 200l. by 10l. to 230l.

9 European Troopers, 160l. by 10l. to 180l. each.

1 Native Officer, 100l.

171 Native N.C.O.'s and Constables, 36l. to 72l.

All European Officials draw war allowances.

Native employees are paid at special rates.

STATISTICS OF SWAZILAND for 1919-20.

| Area | Population | Public Revenue 1919-20. | Public Expenditure 1919-20. | Public Debt at 31st Mar., 1919. | Imports 1919-20. | Export 1919-20. |
|------|------------|------------------------|-----------------------------|-------------------------------|----------------|----------------|
|      |            | £91,801                | £87,073                     | £92,500                       | From United Kingdom. | To United Kingdom. |
|      |            |                        |                             |                               | Total.          | Total.          |
| 6,678 sq. miles. | 1911 Census. | 1,083 Whites. 98,876 Natives. Now (1919) approximately 1,700 Whites 110,000 Natives (including natives temporarily absent at work on the mines in the Transvaal). | No Statistics kept with as part of the Africa for customs | Swaziland is dealt Union of South purposes. |

The period of the financial year is from 1st April, 1919, to 31st March, 1920.
