THE GOLD COAST.

THE GOLD COAST COLONY.

Situation and Native Tribes.

The Gold Coast Colony, with Ashanti and the Protected Northern Territories, is situated on the Gulf of Guinea, between 3° 7' W. long. and 1° 14' E. long., and is bounded on the west by the French colony of the Ivory Coast, on the east by Togoland, on the north by the French Soudan, and on the south by the sea.

The area of the Colony is 24,200 square miles, of Ashanti, 20,000, and of the Northern Territories, 35,800.

The country is inhabited by a large number of native tribes more or less independent of each other, but with similar customs and forms of government. Each tribe has its own head chief and every town or village of the tribe a chief.

The chiefs and sub-chiefs form the council of the tribe, and assist in dealing with matters affecting its general welfare. The succession both to the king's and chiefs' stools is for the most part hereditary by the female side, the heir to the stool being the son of the occupant's eldest sister, or failing male offspring by his sisters, his brothers according to seniority, and back from them to the male offspring of his aunts on the father's side.

The principal coast tribes are the following:—Appollonia, Ahanta, Chamah, Commendah, Elmina, Cape Coast or Fanti, Winnebah, Assin Gomoa, Accra, Adangine, Awuna, Agbosome and Atlao. Some of these, on account of tribal differences, are split up into divisions more or less independent of each other, and as education and civilisation spread, a tendency to further disintegration develops itself.

In the interior the principal tribes are:—Aowin, upper and lower Waassaw, Sefwi, upper and lower Denkera, Tufel, Assen, Esikuma, Ajumako, Akim Abukwa, and Akim Kotoku, Akwapim, eastern and western Krobo, Akwamu, Krepi, Shai, Ningo, Kriko.

For the purposes of administration the Colony is divided into three provinces, each presided over by a Provincial Commissioner. These Provinces are further divided into districts, presided over by District Commissioners. All these Officers not only perform judicial duties as magistrates, but also are in administrative charge of their district. The districts are as follows:—

1. Western province:—Districts—Axim, Ankobra, Tarquah, Secondee, Dixcove, Sefwi and Aowin.
2. Central province:—Districts—Nsuaem, Cape Coast, Saltpond, Winnebah.
3. Eastern province:—Districts—Accra, Birrim, Akwapim, Volta River, Addah, Quittah.

History.

The Gold Coast, with the adjacent territories bordering on the Gulf of Guinea, first became known to Europeans by the enterprise of Portuguese and French navigators in the 14th century. The first European Settlement on the Gold Coast was in 1482, when the fort San Jorge da Mina (Elmina) was built and garrisoned by the Portuguese, who subsequently made several other settlements, and obtained Papal authority for their occupation of the country. During the reign of Elizabeth of England, the Dutch established themselves on the coast, and their rivalry was so successful that they eventually terminated the Portuguese occupation by the capture of Elmina in 1637, and of Fort Anthony at Axim in 1642. The first English Expeditions to the Coast were made in the reign of Edward I., but were all of the nature of private ventures. The "Company of Adventurers of London trading into Africa" incorporated in 1618, led to the establishment of the first British Settlement at Cormantyne. A second company was formed in 1626, and a third in 1662, and settlements were made at Cape Corso (Cape Coast), Anamabu, and Accra, the main object of these companies, as well as those of the other European nations, being traffic in slaves. Three other European nations succeeded in acquiring territories on the Gold Coast, viz.:—The Swedes, the Brandenburghers, and the Danes. The first-mentioned built the fort of Christiansborg, near Accra about 1645, but were driven out by the Danes in 1657, and retired from the Coast. The Brandenburghers established "Fort Great Fredericksburg" at Princes River in 1682, and "Fort Dorothea" at Akwada in 1685, but their enterprise does not seem to have been prosecuted with much vigour, and was finally abandoned in 1720, their possessions falling into the hands of the Dutch. The Danes, however, after first selling the Fort at Christiansborg to the Portuguese, and re-buying it three years later, rapidly improved their position, building forts at several stations to the East of Accra, as far as Addah and Quittah, and exercising a kind of Protectorate over Akwapim, and the Volta River district.

The third English Company was not successful. The Dutch traders spared no efforts to get rid of their rivals, and in consequence of their aggression, an expedition was sent by Charles II. in 1663, under the command of Captain Holmes, which recaptured Cape Coast, taken a few years previously by the Dutch, and all the other Dutch forts, with the exception of Elmina and Axim. In the following year, however, the Dutch Commander de Ruyter recaptured all the lost Dutch forts, with the exception of Cape Coast; and the treaty of Breda, 1667, left affairs in the Gold Coast in this condition. The fourth English Company was incorporated in the year 1672 under the name of the "Royal African Company of England." Under its influence English interests steadily advanced, and forts were established at Dixcove, Secondee, Commendah, Anamabu, Tan-tumquerry, Winnebah, Accra. The abolition of the exclusive privileges which the Royal African Company enjoyed, led to its decline and eventual dissolution in 1752. By the Acts of Parliament 23 George II., c. 31, and 25 George II., c. 40, a fifth trading Corporation, called the "African Company of Merchants" was formed, the membership of which was open to all British traders on payment of a fee of 40/-, compensation being paid for its charter, and property to the Royal African Company. An annual subsidy was granted by Parliament to the newly-formed Company, until 1821, when by the Act 1 & 2 George IV., c. 28, the Company was dissolved and its possessions vested in the Crown, and placed under the Government of the West African Settlement, the seat of government being at Sierra Leone.

In 1824, the Governor of Sierra Leone, Sir Charles Macarthy, on visiting Cape Coast Castle, found the neighbouring country of the Fantis in possession of the Ashantis. He formed the resolution of inciting the Fantis against their oppressors, and led an army of them, with a few disciplined soldiers, against the Ashantis at Ensimankao, where, on the 24th of January, 1824, he was killed, and his force totally routed.
The war which ensued was ended by the victory of the English at Dodowa, near Accra, in 1827. Peace was formally concluded by a tripartite Treaty in 1831, between the English, the Fantis, and the Ashantis.

In the meantime, Her Majesty's Government had inclined to the policy of retiring from the coast altogether, and after the peace they actually transferred the government of the forts to the local and London merchants interested, who secured as their Governor Mr. George Maclean, a man of marked energy and capacity. This gentleman, with a force of no more than 100 men at command, and with a Government subsidy of only 4,000£ a year, contrived to extend and maintain the influence of his Government over the whole tract of country now known as the Gold Coast. In 1843, it having been suspected that the Merchant Government connived at the slave trade, the forts were resumed by the Crown, and a Lieutenant-Governor appointed. Mr. Maclean was continued in the direction of native affairs, under the title of Judicial Assessor to the Native Chiefs, which post he held until his death in 1847.

Hitherto the forts of the various nations were intermixed with each other, and there was no defined limit as to where the influence of one or the other began or ended. The imposition of Customs duties was rendered difficult, if not impossible, by the existence of the free ports of a rival nation within a stone's throw, as it were, of the duty ports. On the 24th of January, 1850, by Letters Patent, the Settlements on the Gold Coast ceased to be dependencies of Sierra Leone, and in the same year, by the purchase of the forts and protectorate of the Danes, the Coast line from Christiansborg to Quittah and the districts of Shai, eastern and western Krobo, Akwapim, Akwamu, and Krepi, were acquired by England. By a Commission dated the 19th February, 1866, the Gold Coast Settlements were reunited to the Colony of Sierra Leone under one Governor-in-Chief. In 1867, a convention was made with the Dutch by which the portion of the Coast lying to the west of the Sweet River, which flows into the sea between Cape Coast and Elmina, was allotted to Holland, England taking all the territory to the east of the river, and a customs union between the two nations was established. The Dutch, however, found many difficulties in the way of their occupation of the forts and possessions received from the English in exchange for those of their own lying to the East of the boundary line. The native tribes refused to recognise their authority, and the prospect before them was that of a long series of petty wars with no reasonable hope of profit to be gained in the future. The result was the convention made between England and Holland in 1871, by which the Dutch transferred all their forts and possessions on the Coast to the English, and Great Britain obtained at last the sole sovereignty and control of the territory from Axim to the Volta. The forts were transferred on the 6th of April, 1872. The present extent and limits of the colony are defined in the Order in Council of 1906.

Constitution.

At the conclusion of peace in 1874, measures were taken for placing the government of the Gold Coast upon a footing of efficiency and security.

A new charter was issued, dated the 24th of July, 1874, separating the settlements of the Gold Coast and Lagos from the government of the West Africa Settlements, and erecting them into one colony under the style of the Gold Coast Colony, under a Governor-in-Chief, with an Administrator at Lagos. There was one Executive Council and one nominated Legislative Council for the two settlements, and one Supreme Court. The charter of 1874 was superseded by Letters Patent dated the 23rd of January, 1883, and 13th January, 1886, respectively. By the latter instrument Lagos was separated from the Gold Coast and formed into a distinct colony. Provision was made for an Executive and Legislative Council, the members of both being nominated by the Crown. Four unofficial members were appointed to the Legislative Council.

By instructions dated 20th September, 1916, under Letters Patent of the same date, all previous instructions were revoked and the Executive and Legislative Councils were re-constituted. The Executive Council now consists of the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney General, the Treasurer, the Principal Medical Officer, and the Secretary for Native Affairs, with the Governor as President. The Legislative Council consists of the members of the Executive Council and, in addition, the Comptroller of Customs, the Director of Public Works, the General Manager of Railways, and the Commissioners of the Eastern, Central and Western Provinces, as ex officio members, and such unofficial members as may be appointed by the Crown. At present there are nine unofficial members, viz., three European, three Paramount Chiefs, and three other members of the native community.

The Supreme Court of the Colony was a Court of Appeal for Lagos, and also under the West African Order in Council, 1884, but legislation providing for the establishment of separate courts of appeal in each colony was passed in 1888.

Law and Justice.

The Law of the Colony is the Common law, the doctrines of equity, and the statutes of general application in force in England, on the 24th July, 1874, modified by a large number of Local Ordinances passed at various periods since that date. The Criminal Law was codified in 1892, and civil and criminal procedure are regulated by the Supreme Court Ordinance passed in 1876.

Justice is administered by the Supreme Court presided over by the Chief Justice, Divisional Courts held in different parts of the colony by four puisne judges, and twenty inferior Courts with limited criminal and civil jurisdiction presided over by District Commissioners. The Supreme Court has an original civil and criminal jurisdiction, and decides appeals from the inferior courts in civil matters, while the Chief Justice has a power of revision of the decisions of the Commissioners in criminal cases. Appeals from Divisional Courts are heard by a full court.

Native law is administered in all the Courts, in as far as it is not incompatible with any Statute or Ordinance, and not repugnant to natural justice.

The Forts of St. James at Accra, St. Jago at Elmina, and Cape Coast Castle are utilised as prisons, and a central prison has been constructed at Secondee.

At Accra and Secondee convicts are taught trades, remunerative industries are carried on, and the English penal system is carried out in a modified form.

Climate.

The climate, though hot and damp, is cooler than that of most tropical countries situated in
similar latitudes. It is not in itself unhealthy; but an evil reputation has been earned for it in the past by the prevalence of mosquito-borne diseases, against which all possible precautions have constantly to be taken. The exact death rate among the non-official European population is difficult to ascertain, but the rate per 1,000 is believed to have been 87 in 1919. Among the European officials the death rate per 1,000 was 9·2 in 1919. No data are at hand for estimating the death rate among the natives. Infant mortality is great. The mean temperature in the shade at Accra averages 74°17' F., and was 77°07' F. in 1919. The average annual rainfall at the same place is about 41 inches, and was 20 inches in 1919. The rainfall varies with the physical configuration of the country, and is very great in Axim and the mining districts of Tarquah, Upper and Lower Wassaw, etc. The "first rains," or rainy season proper, begin in March and end in July; the "latter rains" are spread over the months of September and October. The rainy season is marked by a considerable fall in temperature, which is found to be refreshing to many Europeans, but proves trying to some. The Harmattan season begins in December and ends in February. It is characterised by a cool wind which is sometimes dry and bracing, but often moist and then very depressing.

Domestic Slavery.

Domestic slavery existed from time immemorial on the Gold Coast, as in other parts of Africa, the slave population consisting partly of native-born slaves, and partly of Donkos, slaves purchased from Ashanti importers. Slavery was mainly an emanation of parental authority, every man being saleable either by his father or mother, according to the character of the union subsisting between his parents, and the consequent status of the mother; but there was also a species of slavery called pawning, founded on contract, which arose when a debtor gave to his creditor, as a security, either himself, or a child or slave, to be a temporary slave in the hands of the creditor until debt and interest were paid.

Within the British possessions on the Gold Coast slavery was abolished by force of the statute 3 & 4 Will. IV., c.73, but no attempt had been made to deal with it in the Protectorate, which was not affected by that statute. The harsher usages of slavery were, however, appreciably mitigated by the action of the court of the "Judicial Assessor to the Native Chiefs" and other magistrates. At the conclusion of the war of 1873-4 the question was taken in hand anew by the newly-established Legislative Council at its first meeting, and settled by two ordinances. One of these prohibits under penalties, the introduction of slaves into the Protectorate, and the buying and selling, and pawning of slaves and other persons within the Protectorate; and the second declares, that henceforth no court native or British, shall take notice of, so as to give effect to, the relations between master and slave, except in so far as those relations may be in accordance with the law of England relating to master and servant.

Mail and Steamship Services.

The African Steamship Company and the British and African Steam Navigation Company, Ltd., are under contract with the Postmaster-General for conveyance of His Majesty's mails between Liverpool and the West and South-West coasts of Africa.

Regular sailings are maintained between Liverpool and West African ports for mails, passengers and cargo. There are occasional sailings from London.

Loading Berth in Liverpool:—West Side, Harrington Dock.

Loading Berth in London:—Millwall Dock.

Mail steamers of these Companies (Lagos Express Service) leave Liverpool (Princes Landing Stage) once a fortnight at present, calling at Secondee, and Accra, the usual length of voyage being 14 to 15 days.

Cargo steamers are despatched weekly from Liverpool, and monthly from London, calling at the principal Gold Coast ports. Length of voyage varies from 20 to 30 days.

Cargo steamers are despatched monthly, or as inducement offers, from New York, calling at the principal Gold Coast Ports outwards and homewards. Length of voyage varies from 30 to 35 days.

Cargo steamers are despatched when sufficient cargo is offering from Hamburg and Rotterdam, calling at the principal Gold Coast Ports. Length of voyage varies from 20 to 30 days.

Cargo steamers are despatched monthly or as inducement offers, from Canada, calling at the principal Gold Coast Ports outwards and homewards. Length of voyage about 20 days.

Mail Steamers of Chargeurs Reunis Line, sailing from Bordeaux, call at Accra and Secondee on the homeward trip for passengers and cargo once a month, if sufficient inducement offers.

Cargo Steamers of Compagnie C. Fabre and Compagnie Fraissinet, sailing from Marseilles, call frequently outwards and homewards at Gold Coast Ports.

Cargo Steamers of the Bull Line are despatched monthly, or as sufficient inducement offers, from New York, calling at the principal Gold Coast Ports. Length of voyage 30 to 35 days.

Internal Communication.

Railway communication consists of a 3'6" gauge line from Secondee to Coomassie (167 miles) with branches to Tarquah to Prestea, Akwem to Insua and Inchaban Junction to Inchaban (Secondee Water Works). A 3'6" gauge line is in operation from Accra to Tafo (65 miles) with a 2'6" gauge branch to Weshiang (Accra Water Works). Construction is in progress from both ends on a line to extend the Accra-Tafo railway to Coomassie.

In 1919, the railway revenue was £62,311l., and the working expenditure £234,230l. The total number of miles open for traffic at the end of 1919 was 269, and the capital cost £3,417,192l.

The roads maintained by the Department of Public Works are:

In the Eastern Province:—Accra to Aburi, 23½ miles; branch to Dodowah, Agomeda and Somanyah, 34 miles; Somanyah to Akuse, 10 miles; Somanyah to Kpong, 8 miles; Akuse to Kpong, 6 miles; Akuse to Amudica, 14 miles; Accra to Nsawam, 23 miles; Nsawam to Adeiso and Asamankese 23 miles; Nsawam to Apedwa, 28 miles; Manoose to Adawso and Mamfe, 17½ miles; Koforidua to Huhunvah and Bokono, 17 miles; Anyinam to Jyajete, 3 miles; Adilah Riverside to Addah Beach, 1 mile.—Total, 201½ miles.

Roads under Construction.—Kpong to Ho via a proposed New Ferry over the Volta River at Atimpoko about 70 miles. It is anticipated that the road will be made passable for light motor
traffic during 1921. Ho to Adidome, 44 miles. The road will probably be completed as far as Ahunda, 27 miles, during 1921, while the whole road will be available for traffic during dry weather. Koforidua to Adawso, 11½ miles. It is anticipated that this road will be through to Adawso during 1921. Etwiso to Okrakwadjo, 7¾ miles. This road is a branch off the Koforidua. Bokuso road will be completed during 1921. Apedwa to Kibbi, 10½ miles. It is anticipated that this road will be completed during 1921. Bunso to Kibbi, 11 miles.—Total, 154½ miles.

In the Central Province.—Cape Coast, Elmima to Beposo (Secondee Road) 32 miles; Cape Coast to Jukwa, 14½ miles; Cape Coast, Dunkwa, Mansu, to Akrompuom (Prahsu Road), 47 miles; Cape Coast branch, Yamoransa to Saltpond, 12 miles; Saltpond, Mankessim, Esikuma to Jamra (Nsuame Road), 42 miles; Saltpond branch, Mankessim to Dominaso, 8½ miles; Saltpond branch to Ajumako (Soadru and Accra Road) 2 miles; Winnebah, Soadru, Naaba, to Akroso (Asantamang Road), 43½ miles; Winnebah branch, Soadru, Kwanyako to Adeiso (Accra Road) 26½ miles.—Total 231½ miles.

In the Western Province.—Secondee to Beposo 17 miles; Chamah Junction to Chamah, 3 miles; Secondee to road head Axim road, 9 miles, actually formed to Butre River 17½ miles without culverts and bridges; Tarkquah, Tamso, Tarkquah, Aboso to Cinnamon Bippo, 11½ miles; Broomassie, Bogosu to Insu, 20 miles; Dunkwa, Dunkwa-Wiose Road to RoadHead, 9 miles, formed to Domenasi 18 miles without bridges and culverts; Axim to Anocobra, 3 miles.—Total, 72½ miles.

In Ashanti and Northern Territories.—Coomassie to Ejura, 61 miles; Ejura to Yeji, 84 miles; Yeji to Tama'e, 98 miles; Tama'e to Gambaga, 92 miles. Although the three last roads are open for dry season traffic they should be counted as “under construction” as permanent bridges and culverts are not yet constructed.

In addition to these there are numerous native roads, which are kept clear of bush and passable for traders and travellers by the local chiefs, who are paid by the Government for this purpose amounts varying from 5s. to 1l. a quarter per mile, according to the amount of labour involved and the manner in which the work is performed. Of these the most worthy of mention are the road from Aburi through Apasare and Koforidua to Osino, the Western frontier road, running through Aowin and Sefwi to Wam and British Gaman; the road from Cape Coast to Asafo and Debiso, via Mampong; the roads from Saltpond, Appam and Winnebah to Nauam in Western Akim; the roads from Aburi, through Akwapim and Krobo, to Akuse and Kpong. The road from Koforidua to Tafo (16 miles), has recently been widened sufficiently to take light motor traffic. Coomassie is the centre for the various routes to the Northern Territories. From it roads lead to Gambaga, via Kintampo, to Yeji and Prang, via Atabubu, to Wam and British Gaman, via Odumase and Berekum, and to Akasa. It is also connected with the districts of the Colony by roads running into Sefwi and Akim, as well as by the Cape Coast road mentioned above. Where rivers and swamps have to be crossed, ferries have been instituted, which are controlled for the most part by the Chiefs, who are empowered to levy a small fee. In some cases, where this arrangement has not given satisfaction, ferries are worked under direct Government supervision.

The principal waterway is the Volta River, which rises in the Kong Mountains, and flows into the sea at Addah, after a course of 200 miles. It is navigable for light draught launches as far as Akuse, and, with the exception of the Krachi rapids, can be used for canoe traffic during certain seasons of the year as far as Yeji. The Ankobra River has been largely used for transport purposes to the mines in the Prestea and Himan Districts, and is navigable for many months of the year by surf-boats and light draught launches for a distance of 50 miles. The Tano, connected with Half Assinie, by the main lagoon, and by a tramway, three miles in length, is navigable for light draught launches and canoes as far as Tanoso, a distance of about 60 miles. Rapids at Atakwabo prevent this river being further utilised.

There is no natural harbour along the whole coast of the Colony, and passengers and goods are landed in surf-boats.

Breakwaters have been constructed at Accra and Secondee; at both ports the landing beach is in connection with the Railway. At Secondee cranes and lighters are available for handling goods. The Government has in preparation a scheme for a deepwater harbour at Takoradi, near Secondee.

A Transport Department is established at Secondee and Coomassie, under the direction of the Government. Arrangements can be made for the conveyance of goods and mining material to any part of the Colony by this Department at a fixed tariff.

Posts and Telegraphs.

The mails normally exchanged weekly between the Colony and other British Colonies on the West Coast and the United Kingdom are carried by the steamers of the British and African Steam Navigation Company and of the African Steamer Ship Company. Mails are exchanged overland with Togoland and with the French Ivory Coast.

There are 108 post and telegraph offices and postal agencies. The number of articles passed through the post in 1918 was 6,641,732. The number of parcels exported and imported in 1918 was 37,931. The distribution of mails to towns on the coast at which steamers do not call and to towns which are not situate on the railway lines is effected by runner and motor services.

The rates of postage are as follows:

| Letters per 1 oz. | Post Cards. | Newspapers, Books, &c., per 2 oz. |
|------------------|-------------|---------------------------------|
| Within the Colony | 1d.         | ½d.                             |
| To the United Kingdom and certain British Colonies | 1d.         | ½d.                             |
| To other Countries | 1½d. per oz. above | 1d.                             |

The War Tax of 1d. imposed on letters and letter packets posted within the Colony addressed to other parts of the British Empire was discontinued on the signing of peace.

Parcel post despatches are exchanged direct with the United Kingdom and with the other British
Colonies in West Africa. The postage rates are:—
3 lbs., 1s. 6d.; 7 lbs., 2s. 6d.; 11 lbs., 3s. 6d. to United Kingdom; and 3 lbs., 1s.; 7 lbs., 2s.; 11 lbs., 3s. to other British Colonies in West Africa.

Parcels for other countries are forwarded through the United Kingdom. British Imperial postal orders are issued and paid in the Colony, and both an Inland and a Foreign Money Order system is in operation.

A telegraph line extends along the Coast from Togoland to the Ivory Coast, establishing communication between the eighteen principal towns on the Coast.

Inland a line runs north-easterly from Accra to Akuse and another runs along the Accra-Akwapim Railway to Tafo.

From Secondee a line runs to Coomassie, thence to Nkoranza, where it branches, one branch going via Tamale to Gambaga and the other to Bole and Wa.

In all there are 2,600 miles of telegraph line, exclusive of the lines used for railway purposes.

The rate charged for inland telegrams is 1s. for 12 words and 1½d. per word in excess of 12.

The number of messages dealt with in 1918 was 318,621. Accra and Secondee are in telegraphic communication with Europe via Sierra Leone and Madeira, and to the South with Lagos, Bonny, the Cameroons and the Cape.

A coastal radiotelegraph station was erected at Accra in 1912. The rate for the transmission of radiotelegrams is 9½d. per word.

There are telephone exchanges at Accra, Secondee and Tarquah, and trunk telephone lines connect Accra with the Post Offices at Nsawam, Mangoase and Koforidua, also between Adadah and Akuse, Quittah and Lome in Togoland.

Education.

Education in the Colony is chiefly in the hands of the Government and the Church of England (S.P.G.), Roman Catholic and Wesleyan Missions. The Bremen and Basel Missions were formerly established in the Colony but the first-named was closed down by Government in 1916 and the latter in 1918, after which all the schools of these Missions came under the direct control of Government. Soon after the deportation of the Basel Missionaries the Scottish Mission sent several British Missionaries to supervise the former Basel Mission Congregations, but up to the end of 1919 the education work formerly performed by the Basel Mission was still being done by Government. In addition to former Basel and Bremen Mission Schools, temporarily controlled by Government, there are in all nineteen Government primary schools; eleven in the Colony, four in Ashanti and four in the Northern Territories. There are also a military school at Coomassie and a police school at Accra, but these are not directly under the Education Department.

The nineteen Government primary schools have an enrolment of 3,824, and are entirely supported and equipped from Government funds. They are controlled directly by the Education Department.

The staff of the Government schools is entirely native, with the exception of the three headmasters at Accra, Cape Coast and Coomassie, the head-mistresses at Accra and Cape Coast, who are natives of the West Indies, and an assistant head-master, who is a native of Sierra Leone.

The mission schools are of two kinds, viz., assisted and non-assisted. The former receive grants from the Government, but the latter have not yet qualified for inspection, owing mainly to an insufficient average attendance, and are entirely supported by the missionary societies.

In the Church of England (S.P.G.), Roman Catholic and Wesleyan mission and Government Schools, English is the medium of instruction, while in the former Basel and Bremen mission schools, the vernacular is used mainly during the first two years, and English and vernacular afterwards.

Industrial instruction is given in most schools. This instruction is chiefly of an agricultural character, gardens being attached to most of the Mission Schools. Prizes are offered annually by the Government for the best school gardens.

Instruction in woodwork is given in the Government schools at Accra, Cape Coast and Coomassie, and, at a few mission schools, instruction is given in bookbinding, woodwork and weaving.

The number of Government and assisted schools inspected for the year 1918 was 207. In the year 1918 there were in the Government and assisted schools 26,496 children on the roll, with an average attendance of 21,317. The corresponding figures for the previous year were 24,724 and 19,822 respectively. The number of children on the roll of the non-assisted schools cannot be given with accuracy.

The following statement shows the number of Government and assisted schools with the numbers on the roll, average attendance, and amount of grant earned for 1918:

| Denomination                  | No. of Schools | On Roll | Average Attendance | Grant in Aid |
|-------------------------------|---------------|---------|--------------------|--------------|
| A.M.E. Zionist Mission        | 5             | 849     | 661                | £374 8 7     |
| Former Basel Mission          | 80            | 8,036   | 7,001              |              |
| Former Bremen Mission         | 25            | 1,855   | 1,582              |              |
| Church of England (S.P.G.) Mission | 4       | 666     | 511                | £378 5 8     |
| Government                    | 18            | 3,824   | 3,113              |              |
| Roman Catholic Mission        | 91            | 3,432   | 2,556              | £2,345 12 9  |
| Wesleyan Mission              | 40            | 7,789   | 5,825              | £3,189 19 5  |
| Secondary                     | 1             | 43      | 38                 | £70 17 4     |
| **Total**                     | **204**       | **26,496** | **21,317**         | **£6,359 3 9** |

Expenses defrayed by Government.
There is at present only one mission training institution for teachers, viz., the former Basel Mission Seminary at Akropong, the control of which was taken over by Government when the Basel Missionaries were deported, but which since January, 1919 has been supervised by a European member of the Scottish mission. A Government undenominational training college at Accra was opened in August, 1909, and students for this college are received from Government and assisted schools. The staff consists of the principal, four assistant masters, all of whom are Europeans, a West Indian teacher and two native teachers.

A technical school was established in Accra in 1909 by Government. The staff consists of the Principal, two European instructors and two Native technical instructors. The school is equipped for the teaching of:

(a) Metal-work (theoretical and practical), comprising fitting, blacksmith's work, and mechanical drawing;

(b) Wood-work (theoretical and practical), comprising carpentry, joinery, cabinet-making, polishing and mechanical drawing.

The course in the school extends over a period of from two-and-a-half to three years.

The only assisted secondary school in the Colony is the S.P.G. grammar school at Cape Coast. There is, however, under consideration a scheme for the establishment in Accra of a Government secondary school at an early date.

Currency and Banking.

Prior to 1912 and 1913 the currency consisted chiefly of British gold (comparatively rare), silver and copper. In 1912, subsidiary nickel-bronze coins (½d., ¼d., and ⅛d. pieces) were introduced, and in 1913 a special silver currency common to all the British West African Colonies. The coins so far issued are 2s., 1s., 6d. and 3d. pieces. These are of the same weight and fineness as the corresponding British coins. Owing to the great increase in the demand for currency and the difficulties in obtaining adequate supplies, it was found necessary in 1915 to make British Treasury Notes of the denominations of 20s. and 10s. legal tender, and in 1916 special West African Currency Notes were introduced, the following values being now in circulation, viz.: 5s., 20s., 10s., 2s., and 1s.

In 1920, owing to the rapid disappearance of silver coins, an alloy coinage was introduced of the same denominations as the silver coins. The special West Africa silver and alloy currency and the West African Currency Notes are under the management of the West African Currency Board and are secured by sterling securities held by the Board. Current British gold and silver coins, British 20s. and 10s. Treasury Notes, West Africa Currency silver and alloy coins, West African Currency Notes, and West Africa nickel-bronze coins are all legal tender, as well as certain foreign gold coins, which are, however, seldom if ever met with.

The Bank of British West Africa, Limited, opened at Accra on the 1st January, 1897, and now has branches at all the principal business centres in the Colony.

The Colonial Bank began business at Accra in 1917, and branches have now been opened at other centres. Both Banks have a savings department. In 1888, a Government Savings Bank was established which is now under Post Office management. On 31st December, 1919, the amount to the credit of depositors was £4,437l.

Accounts are kept in sterling.

Population.

The census returns for 1911 give the population of the Colony as 853,766; but the actual population is considered to be in excess of these figures. There are about 1,700 Europeans. The returns for Ashanti give 287,814, and for the Northern Territories, 361,806. The populations of the chief towns are Accra, 19,585; Cape Coast Castle, 11,364; Secondee, 7,725; Coomassie, 18,883.

Trade and Industries.

The chief products of the Colony are cocoa and gold. Palm oil, palm kernels, lumber, and kola are also shipped.

The cultivation of cocoa was started in Akwampi in 1879, and exports in 1891 realised £4. Coffee at that time fetched a fair price, and it was not until 1898, when the price for the latter article fell so low as to make its cultivation at any distance from the coast unremunerative, that attention was paid to cocoa. Since that year the cocoa industry has made rapid strides. In 1900 the value exported was £7,280l., in 1917, £3,146,851l., and in 1918, £1,796,985l.

Gold has been exported from the Gold Coast more or less continuously since the discovery of the country by Europeans in the fifteenth century. Up to 1874, however, the industry was almost entirely in the hands of the natives. The first company for gold mining in West Africa was founded in 1874, but did little beyond exploration. A second company, formed in 1879, engaged in mining operations in the neighbourhood of Tarquah, and from that year the progress of mining enterprise is indicated by the rapid increase in the exports of gold bars, the result of European operations, as compared with those of gold dust, the produce of native mining. In 1899 there was a very remarkable development of the mining industry, which, though checked for a while by the disturbances in Ashanti, received a fresh impetus from the passing of the Concessions Ordinance in 1900, the progress of the railway, and general improvement in means of transport.

Gold is widely diffused throughout the Colony, Ashanti, and some parts of the Northern Territories, in quartz deposits and alluvial deposits, while in Wassaw there is good conglomerate or banket formation which is now reported to extend to the Birrim District in the Eastern Province. The rivers are said to be rich in alluvial deposits. Bitumen is found along the banks of the river Bonni, in Apollonia and the stream Akyikyiri, flowing into the Ewiano lagoon near Half Assini. Manganese ore has been found near the railway line, 33 miles from Seccondee, and this important ore is now being exported to England in considerable quantities. Bauxite and diamonds have been discovered recently. In the Winnebah district tin ore has been discovered and the deposit is being tested. In the same locality a silver lead vein has been located. In the Eastern Province near Kibbi diamonds have been found.

Palm oil is used chiefly in the manufacture of soap and candles, and though for this reason its value fluctuates to some extent with the tallow market, the average value of the exports of this article is consistently high. The Volta River District is the most important centre for palm oil, on account of the facilities afforded by the river for transport to the coast. The oil is packed in casks, rolled to the river, towed by...
canoes to Akuse, and thence by launches to Addah for shipment to Europe. In other parts of the country the casks are rolled along the road to the nearest sea-port. The value of the palm oil exported in 1918 was £83,689l. The average value for the previous ten years was £4,053l.

The trade in kola nuts, which suffered greatly during the Ashanti disturbances, has since showed a steady increase. The tree is found principally in Ashanti and Akin, and the largest markets are at Bontuku (in French Territory), Kintampo, Salaga, and Kpong, whence the kola nut is conveyed by caravans to the Hausa States in the Hinterland. Returns are not available for the amount of kola exported by these routes. Good trees have been planted by the Botanical Department, and increased attention is paid to its cultivation by the natives. The value of this product, exported by sea, amounted to £239,134l. in 1917 and £262,144l. in 1918.

The value of the kernels exported in 1918 was £152,921l.

The value of rubber exports has fluctuated in the last few years. There are several reasons to account for this—viz., the low prices ruling in the European markets, the destruction of trees by unskilful tapping, the fact that rubber from the adjoining French and German Colonies no longer comes to Gold Coast ports, and the fact that a more profitable field for labour is offered by the cultivation of cocoa, and by the numerous mining enterprises, causes which have affected all staple products. In 1908 the value of rubber exported fell to £168,144l., but rose again in 1910 to £358,876l. In 1918 it was £57,006l. 1,500 trees have been planted by the Botanical Department in forest land recently acquired by Government, and efforts are being made to instruct the natives in more scientific methods of tapping the trees and preparing the rubber for the market.

The values of the following exports for 1919 were:

| Export          | Value     |
|-----------------|-----------|
| Cocoa           | £8,278,554|
| Kola Nuts       | £350,249  |
| Lumber          | £103,238  |
| Palm Kernels    | £253,248  |
| Palm Oil        | £140,163  |
| Rubber          | £33,637   |

Total: £9,159,089

On 1st October, 1916, an export duty of one farthing a lb. was levied on cocoa. This was reduced, by an Order in Council of the 20th November, 1917, to one-fifth of a penny per lb. and increased, by an Ordinance passed on 4th July, 1919, to one-halfpenny per lb.

The first in value of the imports are cotton goods, followed by machinery, soap, hardware and building materials. The imports of machinery have improved in the last few years with the advance of the mining enterprise. The majority of the imports are subject to an ad valorem duty of 20%. Specific duties are imposed on a few articles, such as spirits, tobacco, gunpowder, etc. The Customs receipts come to more than one-half the total revenue of the Colony.

Native manufactures are insignificant. Cloths are woven in many parts of the country, for the most part of English spun yarn, but in the northern districts occasionally of thread manufactured from the indigenous cotton plant. Narrow strips of four to six inches are woven on a rough hand loom, and stitched together to make clothes of various sizes. Gold and brass are worked by native smiths; canoes are made on the coast rivers; pottery for domestic purposes is made by hand, and wood-carving is done chiefly in Ashanti and Kwahu. Salt is roughly prepared from the lagoons between Accra and Quittah, and sent up country to the markets of the Northern Territories. Fishing is extensively carried on along the coast, and large quantities of sun-dried fish are sent to the villages and markets of the interior.

ASHANTI.

Ashanti is inhabited by a large number of confederated tribes, the principal of which are the Bekwai, Adamsis, Kokofus, Nkwantas, Coomassies, Agunas, Mampons, Nautas, Kunawus, Bompatas, Jusbins and Jiasu. Each tribe has its own king, but from time immemorial the King of Coomassie was recognised as the King paramount of the Confederation. As King paramount, he succeeded to what was known as the "golden stool," the ceremony of enthronement lasting several weeks, and being observed by the performance of native customs, which in times past consisted largely in the sacrifice of slaves.

In 1873 the King of Ashanti invaded the British Protectorate with a large army, and reached Elmina, where he was entirely defeated by the British forces under Colonel (afterwards Sir) Francis Festing. Later in the year Captain (afterwards Sir) John Glover was sent to the eastern districts of the Protectorate to organise the tribes in that quarter, for a flank movement against the Ashanti territory. At the same time Sir Garnet, now Viscount, Wolseley was despatched to the Gold Coast, with British and West Indian troops, native levies, and some seamen and marines, to operate against the Ashantis, starting from Cape Coast. On the 31st of January, 1874, he came into general engagement with the enemy at Amoafu, where, after desperate resistance, he drove them from their position. The next four days were employed continuously in fighting, until, on the evening of the 4th of February, the British force entered Coomassie. The King had fled to the bush. A few days later Sir John Glover also reached Coomassie. On the 13th, messengers sent by the King concluded a peace with Sir Garnet Wolseley at Fommahan, which was afterwards signed with a pencil cross by King Kofi. By the Treaty of Fommahan, the King of Ashanti renounced all claims on the Protectorate, promised to protect traders, to abandon human sacrifices, and to pay an indemnity of 50,000 ozs. of gold.

In 1894 Prempeh, who was then King of Coomassie, and had successfully fought against the Nkoranzas, who had revolted against his rule, threatened to attack the Atabubus. This attack was averted by the despatch of a force under Sir Francis Scott, and an ultimatum was then sent to Prempeh warning him not to enter British territory, and suggesting that he should acquiesce in the establishment of a Residency at Coomassie. No definite reply to this suggestion could be obtained, and a military expedition accordingly proceeded to Coomassie, to compel compliance with the demands of Her Majesty's Government. The expedition, under the command of Sir Francis Scott, entered Coomassie without resistance,
"neutral zone." This partition assigned Salaga Great Britain and Germany Togoland was invaded
canoe for ah count neare expor value

Th durin a stes Asha at B Salag conv Hinz amou trees Dep its ct prod' 1917

Th 152,9

Th in th to ac the F unsk adjoi come more culti enter podu fell 358, have in fo and in m and

Th were

Coco Kols Lum Palm Palm Rub

O fart red Nov and 1919

T good buil hav advi of t of
January, 1896. Prempeh made submission, but, failing to comply with the terms dictated, was brought to the coast as a political prisoner and lodged in Elmina Castle. A Resident was at the same time installed at Coomassie, and thus commenced an entirely new departure in the relations of the Gold Coast Colony with Ashanti.

In 1900 the Governor visited Coomassie, and was there besieged by the Ashantis, the town being closely invested. Provisions ran short, and a part of the garrison, with the Governor, cut their way out; the rest were relieved by Colonel (afterwards Sir J.) Willcocks, commanding the Ashanti Field Force, on 15th July, after severe fighting. The Ashantis were subsequently thoroughly routed at Obassa.

An Order of the King in Council, dated September 26th, 1901, defined the boundaries of Ashanti, annexed it to His Majesty's Dominions, and provided for its administration under the Government of the Gold Coast. Ashanti is under a Chief Commissioner, with Commissioners of Provinces and Districts under him. By a subsequent Order in Council of the 22nd of October, 1906, the boundaries between the Colony and Ashanti, and between Ashanti and the Northern Territories, were re-adjusted and defined, with due regard to tribal lands and natural features. The provinces of Ashanti are called Central, Southern, Western and Northern, and have head-quarters at Coomassie, Obuasi, Sunyani and Kintampo. Courts of Justice were established at each of these stations, with appeal to the Court of the Chief Commissioner.

THE NORTHERN TERRITORIES.

In 1897 the territories to the north of Ashanti were constituted a separate district with the title of "The Northern Territories," and placed in charge of a Commissioner, and a grant-in-aid of the expenditure in the Northern Territories was voted by Parliament.

Major H. P. Northcott was appointed Commissioner and Commandant of these territories, with the rank of Lieutenant-Colonel. The negotiations between the British and French Governments for the settlement of territorial questions in West Africa, which had been suspended in 1896, were resumed in October, 1897; and on 14th June, 1898, after a period of considerable tension in consequence of the proximity of the British and French forces in the disputed territories, a Convention was signed at Paris with a proviso that it should be ratified within six (subsequently extended to twelve) months. By this Convention the boundary between the Gold Coast and the French Colony of the Ivory Coast, which had only been settled in 1889, as far as the 9th parallel of north latitude, was continued northwards along the course of the Black Volta River to the 11th parallel, and it was then drawn along the 11th parallel with a deflection to the north in the neighbourhood of Mamprusi, until it met the Franco-German boundary of 1897. The effect of the Anglo-French Convention of 14th June, 1898, was to leave Bona, Lobi, and Moshi to France, while Dagati, Wa, Mamprusi, and the southern portion of Gurunshi were included in the British sphere.

On 14th November, 1899, an agreement was concluded with Germany for the partition of the "neutral zone." This partition assigned Salaga to Great Britain, and Yendi to Germany, and to the north of the zone gave Mamprusi to the former and Chakosi to the latter.

Survey operations were undertaken by Anglo-French and Anglo-German Commissions during 1901-2, for the delimitation of those portions of the boundaries which had not yet been settled.

By the demarcation on the ground of the Anglo-German boundary between the Trans-Volta District and the adjoining Colony of Togo; of the Anglo-German boundary north of the 9th parallel of north latitude; and of the Anglo-French boundary along the 11th parallel of north latitude, all the frontiers of the Colony, Ashanti and the Northern Territories have now been exactly defined with the exception of a small portion of the Anglo-German boundary lying between 6° 10' and 6° 20'.

Provision was made for the administration of the Northern Territories under the Gold Coast Government by an Order of the King in Council of 26th September, 1901, and by an Administrative Ordinance of January 1st, 1902, the Northern Territories were placed under a Chief Commissioner, and divided into the White Volta, Black Volta, Kintampo and Gonga Districts with headquarters at Gambaga, Wa, Kintampo and Salaga. These Districts are presided over by Commissioners, who are responsible to the Chief Commissioner and have Courts of Justice, with appeal to the Chief Commissioner at Gambaga.

By Order in Council, of the 22nd of October, 1906, the boundaries between the Northern Territories and Ashanti were re-adjusted and defined.

An important step was taken with regard to the Government of this Protectorate by replacing, with effect from the 1st of January, 1907, the former semi-military administration by a staff of Civil District and Assistant District Commissioners, and by establishing new stations. Simultaneously, the 2nd Battalion of the Gold Coast Regiment has been disbanded and a force of armed constabulary substituted therefor.

