CAYMAN ISLANDS.

The Cayman Islands (a dependency of Jamaica) with an area of 104½ square miles and a population (in 1921) of 5,253, consist of three islands, Grand Cayman (85 square miles), Little Cayman (9 square miles), and Cayman Brac (10½ square miles), lying between 79° 83' and 81° 30' W. longitude, and 19° 16' and 19° 45' N. latitude. They were discovered by Columbus, on his return voyage from Porto Bello to Hispaniola, but were never occupied by the Spaniards. The English took possession of them soon after the conquest of Jamaica, and they were mainly colonised from that island.

Grand Cayman is distant about 178 miles from the nearest point of Jamaica. It is 17 miles in length, and varies from 4 to 7 miles in breadth. The coasts are for the most part rock-bound, protected by coral reefs and enclosing some fair-sized harbours. One on the north side of the island, called the Great Sound, measures over six miles across.

The principal industry of the inhabitants is catching turtle. These turtle are brought to the island and placed in "kraals," to recover and fatten before being sent to their next stage, Key West, United States. Over 2,000 turtles a year are thus disposed of at an average price of 2l. each.

The Island of Grand Cayman is in some parts fruitful, and the usual tropical products are grown, but a considerable acreage is traversed by honey-combed limestone, and unfit for cultivation. Mahogany, cedar and other valuable timber and some dye-woods are found in quantities. Phosphate deposits of some value exist, and were worked, but have lately been neglected.

There are two towns, Georgetown and Bodden-town, and several villages. The population of Grand Cayman numbered 3,945 at the census of 1921.

The smaller Cayman Islands, viz., Little Cayman and Cayman Brac, are about 70 miles distant from Grand Cayman; they are almost entirely given up to the growth of cocoanuts. Their inhabitants numbered at the last reckoning 95 and 1,213 persons respectively.

The proportion of white inhabitants in the Cayman Islands is much larger than in most parts of the West Indies.

Fine schooners of native woods are constructed at these islands for sale and for local use, the people being first-rate shipwrights.

The Legislative Assembly of the Cayman Islands consists of the Justices of the Peace and elected Vestrymen, and the laws passed by this body are subject to the assent of the Governor of Jamaica before becoming operative.

The government of the Dependency is administered by a Commissioner.

Revenue. Expenditure.
1930 . . . . £6,466 £6,228
Imports. Exports.
1930 . . . . £41,762 £11,450

Civil Establishment.

Commissioner, G. H. Frith, (acting), furnished house, 500l.-600l. and fees.
Clerk to Commissioner, F. L. Bodden, 60l.
Government Medical Officer, Dr. G. N. Overton, partially furnished residence, 65l. for drug and travelling allowances, private practice and 300l.
Clerk of the Courts, Clerk of the Vestry, and Auditor, A. E. Panton, 150l.
Collector of Customs (Georgetown), Postmaster, R. J. Watler, 180l.
Assistant to Collector and Treasury Clerk, A. C. Panton, 125l.
Collector of Customs, Collector of Taxes, Postmaster, Inspector of Roads, Health Officer, Receiver of Wrecks, Registrar of Births and Deaths, Lesser Cayman Islands, A. S. Rutty, 160l. and fees. Assistant do., J. C. Lazzari, 96l.
Inspector of Police, Bailiff Grand Court, &c., J. R. Watler, 150l., fees and quarters.

The exports are chiefly to Canada and the United States.
An ad valorem customs duty of 10% is levied on most imports and specific duties on alcoholic liquors, tobacco, flour and a few other articles.

Climate.
The climate is equable and healthy, and rarely unpleasantly hot, owing to the constant sea breezes, but there is a scarcity of fresh provisions and good water, owing to the low lying barren nature of the soil.
The mean temperature (day) is 78°, the extreme range being from 60° to 93°. The rainfall at Grand Turk during 1930 amounted to 27.77 inches, the average rainfall during the five years 1926-1930 was 29.26 inches.

Means of Communication.
There is a mail, passenger, and freight service between New York and Grand Turk about twice a month by steamers of the Royal Netherlands West India Mail, and also between Jamaica and Turks Islands once a month by sailing vessel.
The Elders and Fyffes Line make occasional calls on their way to Jamaica when passengers offer and on such occasions take mails to Jamaica.
The rate of letter postage is 2d. per ounce to all British Possessions; 2½d. to the U.S.A., and to all other countries 3d. per ounce.
There are no railways in these Islands.
Internal mails are carried between the several islands by small sailing-craft engaged in local trade.
Mails to and from England and other parts of the world are dispatched and received via New York.
Grand Turk is an important cable junction, there being cables to Jamaica, to Barbados and to Bermuda.
The Government radio-telegraph system provides service between Grand Turk, Cockburn Harbour, and Salt Cay, and with ships at sea within short range.
There is a public telephone service at Grand Turk.

Education.
There are ten elementary schools supported by Government, with 848 pupils enrolled in 1930 and an average attendance of 711. The schools are entirely unsectarian and free.
There is a Government Secondary School at Grand Turk.
Cambridge Local Examinations are held annually at Grand Turk.

Currency and Banking.
The coins in circulation, all of them being legal tender under Bahama Acts, 2 Vict. cap. 4, and 3 Vict. cap. 49, also Jamaica Law 10 of 1880, consist of British sterling, United States gold and silver, and Jamaica nickel tokens. There is no limit to the legal tender of silver. There is a local Government paper currency of five shillings, ten shillings and one pound notes. Commercial accounts are usually kept in dollars, and Government accounts in sterling. A Government savings bank was established on 1st Jan., 1890, and had, on 31st Dec., 1930, 894 depositors, with 14,798l. deposits.

Constitution.
By Jamaica Law No. 6 of 1926 which came into operation on the 1st day of August 1926, the

