†TANGANYIKA TERRITORY.

Extent and Boundaries.

The Tanganyika Territory consists of that portion of the former Colony of German East Africa which, under Article 23, Part I, of the Treaty of Peace with Germany, the Principal Allied and Associated Powers agreed should be administered under a mandate by His Britannic Majesty. The remaining portions of the Colony, namely the districts of Ruanda and Urundi in the North-West, and the Kionga Area, South of the Rovuma River, were similarly entrusted to the administration of Belgium and of Portugal respectively. The Territory extends from the Umba River on the North to the Rovuma River on the South, the coast line being about 500 miles in length, and includes the adjacent islands. The Northern Boundary runs in a north-westerly direction to Lake Victoria at the intersection of the first parallel of latitude with the eastern shore of the lake (Mohuru Point), and thence along the first parallel of latitude until it strikes the Kagera River about 70 miles west of Lake Victoria. From this point the western boundary follows the Kagera River to approximately latitude 2°25', and thence along the eastern boundary of Urundi to the Mlagarassi River which it follows to Lake Tanganyika. The boundary then follows a line due west until it reaches the centre line of Lake Tanganyika which it follows to Rasanga (formerly Bismarckburg), at the southern end of the lake. Thence it follows the boundary of Rhodesia to the northern end of Lake Nyasa and continues along the centre line of Lake Nyasa to a point due west of the Rovuma River whence the boundary runs east and joins the Rovuma River, whose course it follows to the sea. The total area of the Territory is about 374,085 square miles, which includes about 20,000 square miles of water.

The Island of Mafia was transferred in 1922 from Zanzibar to the Territory.

General Description.

Along the coast lies a plain, varying in width from 10 to 40 miles, behind which the country rises gradually to a plateau constituting the greater part of the hinterland. This plateau falls sharply from a general level of 4,000 feet to the level of the lakes (Tanganyika, 2,590 feet; Nyasa, 1,607 feet), which mark the great Rift valley extending northwards to Lake Naivasha.

The seat of government is Dar-es-Salaam (population 35,000) which lies along the northern and north-western shores in an almost land-locked harbour, about 3 miles long. The chief buildings are solid and roomy. The second town in importance is Tanga, 136 miles north of Dar-es-Salaam and 80 miles distant from Mombasa. Other seaports are Pangani, Bagamoyo, Kilwa, Lindi, and Mikindani. The most important inland town is Tabora, which has a population of 25,000, and is situated at the junction of the main caravan routes from the coast of Tanganyika and from Victoria Nyanza to Nyasa. Other inland towns are, in the north, Moshi and Arusha; in the central area, Morogoro, Kilosa, and Dodoma; and in the south, Iringa, Mahenge, and Songea. On the great lakes the chief towns are Mwanza and Bukoba, on Victoria Nyanza; Kigoma, the terminus of the Central Railway; Ujiji, on Tanganyika; and Mwaya, on Nyasa.

The highest points in the Territory are in the north-east, where are the extinct volcanoes, Kilima Njaro, which rises to 19,720 feet, and is snow-capped, and Mount Meru (14,960 feet). In the south-west are the Livingstone Mountains, where the highest peak is over 9,000 feet.

Portions of the great lakes of Central Africa are included in the Territory, viz.: the southern portion of Lake Victoria, the eastern shores of the lower part of Lake Tanganyika, and the northern and north-eastern shores of Lake Nyasa. There are smaller lakes and numerous rivers.

Climate.

The climate of the Territory varies greatly according to the height above sea-level of the several districts. Roughly, four climatic zones can be distinguished, though even among these there are considerable local variations:—(i) The warm and rather damp coast region with its adjoining hinterland.—Here, conditions are tropical, though not unpleasant except just before and during the rainy seasons, when the heat is trying and the atmosphere humid. The average yearly temperature is 78 degrees. (ii) The hot and moderately dry zone between the coast and the central plateau (300 feet—2,000 feet). This zone is characterised by low humidity of atmosphere, less rain, and a temperature rather lower but with greater daily and yearly variations. (iii) The hot and dry zone of the central plateau between 2,000 feet and 4,000 feet in height.—The climate of this zone differs greatly in parts, but its prevailing characteristics are low humidity, little rainfall (at Tabora an annual average of 32 inches), a fairly high mean temperature, with great daily and yearly variations, sometimes exceeding 36 degrees Fahrenheit daily. The heat is dry, but not so trying to the European as the moist and steamy warmth of the coast, while the nights are invariably cold. (iv) The semi-temperate regions around the slopes of Kilimanjaro and Meru, of the Usambara Highlands, the Ufipa Plateau, and the mountainous areas of the south-western area (5,000 feet—10,000 feet).—Frosts occur at the higher altitudes, and the nights are cold. These districts enjoy a bracing climate, and alone can be considered healthy for Europeans, but prolonged residence in these altitudes is apt to produce nervous strain, even though physical fitness is maintained. There are two well-defined rainy seasons annually. Generally speaking, the long rains begin in February or March, and last...
This agreement was amended on May 24th, 1919. Under the amended agreement the Sultan agrees to accept a British Officer, called the British Adviser, whose advice must be asked and acted upon in all matters affecting the general administration of the country and the collection and disbursement of all revenues.

The ruling of Sultans dates from the seventeenth century, as there is unbroken succession from Sultan Zainal Abidin, through ten intermediary Sultans to the present ruler.

Two loans of $1,000,000 each granted by the Straits Government in 1923 and 1925 have enabled Trengganu to resume large Ruling House Land Concessions and to commence a programme of surveys, road construction, and other development works.

A further loan of $1,500,000 for the continuation of the road programme was approved by the Straits Settlements Government in 1928, and $1,200,000 drawn to the end of A.H. 1349 (May 1931), at which date the Public Debt thus amounted to $113,200,000 (373,333L).

The mining and agricultural resources of the State are being gradually developed.

Administration.

British Adviser, G. L. Ham, M.C.S. (acting), $14,400.
Assistant Adviser, Kemaman, A. L. Birse, M.C.S. (acting), $10,560.
Assistant Adviser, Besut, A. J. Gracie, M.C.S. (acting), $6,840.
Commissioner of Lands and Mines, J. R. Neave, M.C.S. (acting), $10,560.
Collector of Land Revenue, E. R. E. Turnbull, M.C.S., $6,840.
State Engineer, P. Trump, $11,400.
Executive Engineers, Kuala Trengganu, G. T. F. White.
Assistant Engineer, P. McNeo.
Commissioner of Police, E. Bagot (acting), $10,200.
Medical Officer, N. H. Harrison, $10,560.
Superintendent of Surveys, C. T. M. Husband, $10,800.
Assistant Superintendent of Surveys, C. Noble.

