TRANS-JORDAN.

A strip of country fringing the Syrian desert and extending from Syria in the north to the Gulf of Akaba in the south forms the territory known as Trans-Jordan. It is divided from Palestine by the Rivers Yarmuk and Jordan and the Dead Sea.

The frontier between Nejd and Trans-Jordan starts in the north-east from the point of intersection of meridian 39°E. and parallel 32°N., and proceeds in a straight line to the point of
intersection of meridian 37°E. and parallel 31°30'N. and thence along meridian 37°E. to the point of its intersection with parallel 31°25'N. From this point, it proceeds in a straight line to the point of intersection of meridian 38°E. and parallel 30°N., leaving all projecting edges of the Wadi Sirhan in Nejd Territory, and thence proceeds along meridian 38°E. to the point of its intersection with parallel 29°35'N.

The southern boundary of Trans-Jordan is yet to be defined.

The northern portion of Trans-Jordan consists of elevated country, rising to 3,500 to 4,000 feet above sea level, which on the western margin falls abruptly to the narrow fertile plain of the Jordan valley, and on the eastern falls more gradually to grass lands through which runs the Hejaz Railway line and which gradually merges into the desert.

The grass land strip forms the summer pastures of Bedouin tribes who in the winter move further east for pasturage. West of the railway are the wheat and barley lands of the Kerak, Balqa and Ajlun tribes as well as of the Circassian colonies in the Balqa and the numerous Arab villages in the north. Perennial water is found in the deep lateral valleys which is used for the irrigation of cultivable land in the valleys themselves, and subsequently waters relatively large areas of the fertile land of the Jordan depression which are cultivated by semi-nomad tribes. The remainder of this depression is used by these tribes as winter grazing grounds. In the north there are a number of large villages, but the only towns of any size are Amman, Salt, Kerak and Irbid.

No census has been taken but the population is believed to be slightly over 300,000.

His Britannic Majesty is the Mandatory for Trans-Jordan, to which the terms of the Mandate for Palestine, with the exception of the provisions dealing with the establishment of a national home for the Jewish people, are applicable. The declaration of His Majesty's Government with regard to its Mandatory obligations in Trans-Jordan made to the Council of the League of Nations in September, 1922 (Cmd. 1783) was in the following terms:

"In the application of the Mandate to Trans-Jordan, the action which in Palestine is taken by the Administration of the latter country, will be taken by the Administration of Trans-Jordan under the general supervision of the Mandatory.

His Majesty's Government accept full responsibility as Mandatory for Trans-Jordan and undertake that such provision as may be made for the administration of that country in accordance with Article 25 of the Mandate shall be in no way inconsistent with those provisions of the Mandate which are not by this resolution declared inapplicable."

On the 20th February, 1928, an Agreement between His Britannic Majesty and his Highness the Amir for the purposes of setting up an independent and constitutional Government and placing His Britannic Majesty in a position to fulfil his international obligations in respect of Trans-Jordan, was signed by the representatives of the High Contracting Parties and an Organic Law thereupon came into force provisionally, pending the ratification of the Agreement after its acceptance by the Legislative Council provided for in the Law. The provisions of this Agreement relating to the expenses of the British Resident and his staff, customs duties and consular representation were amended by a supplementary Agreement which was signed at Jerusalem on the 2nd June, 1934.

The Legislative Council, consisting of six official and sixteen elected members, met for the first time on the 2nd April, 1929, and accepted the Agreement during its first session.

The Mandatory is represented in Trans-Jordan by the British Resident, assisted by a few British officers and a small clerical staff. The British Resident acts under the instructions of the High Commissioner for Trans-Jordan, who is also the High Commissioner for Palestine.

A local Arab Administration has been formed under His Highness the Emir Abdullah ibn Hussain, G.C.M.G., G.B.E. (son of ex-King Hussain of the Hejaz and uncle of King Ghazi of Iraq).

Amman is the capital. Amman, Kerak, Irbid and Ma'an are headquarters of District Governors.

The Ottoman Code is in operation with but few changes. The official language is Arabic.

The system of Turkish taxation, which was most uneven in its incidence, has been replaced by a Land Tax based on a fiscal survey. The Land Tax is assessed at the rate of 6% of the annual revenue of the land. Urban property is subject to a House and Land Tax assessed at the rate of 8% of the rental value.

The Customs Tariff is mainly on a specific basis. The following are the principal articles subject to specific duties:—Cigarettes, Tobacco, Benzine and Kerosene, Flour, Rice, Sugar, Coffee, Cotton, woollen and silk materials, Timber, Rubber Tyres and Tubes, and Matches.

Palestine pays Trans-Jordan an annual sum on account of the Customs Duty collected on goods of foreign origin which are re-exported to Trans-Jordan. The Trans-Jordan collects and retains the import duty on goods imported in transit through Palestine. The Syrian Government also refunds the duty collected on articles of foreign origin when re-exported to Trans-Jordan; and Trans-Jordan in addition collects a further small percentage of the value of the goods as assessed at Damascus. Trans-Jordan collects a specific additional excise duty on imported alcohol and tobacco.

Until 1926, public security in Trans-Jordan was maintained by a locally-recruited force known as the Arab Legion and a number of civil police in the larger towns. In 1926 these forces were reorganised. A military force called the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force was raised in Palestine and Trans-Jordan for the defence of the two territories, and police duties in Trans-Jordan were entrusted to a civil police force, to which the old name of the Arab Legion was given.

Statistics.

| Year   | Revenue (£P.) | Expenditure (£P.) |
|--------|---------------|-------------------|
| 1929-30| 318,147       | 338,461           |
| 1930-31| 367,516       | 360,530           |
| 1931-32| 338,046       | 344,984           |
| 1932-33| 354,888       | 340,833           |
| 1933-34| 357,956       | 374,769           |
| 1934-35| 377,517       | 369,395           |
| 1935-36| 375,573       | 400,539           |
| 1936-37| 418,605       | 435,039           |
| 1937-38| 377,160       | 414,417           |

Emir, H. H. Abdullah ibn Hussain, G.C.M.G., G.B.E., British Resident, Lieut.-Col. Sir Henry Cox, K.C.M.G., D.S.O., £P.1,200.
Assistant Resident, R. S. Champion, O.B.E., £P.800 by £P.25 to £P.1,000.
Trans-Jordan Administration.

Chief Minister and Minister of Justice, Tawfik Abul Huda.
Judicial Adviser, A. L. Gardiner.
Financial Adviser, G. H. Shelswell-White.
Kadi al Kuda, Sh. Ahmed Es Saqaf.
Director of Antiquities, Hashem Kheir.
Director of Public Works, Abdul Rahman Eff. Ghorayib, M.B.E. (Hon.).
Director of Health, Dr. Halim Abu Rahmeh, M.B.E. (Hon.).
Director of Education, Samir El Rifai.
Director of Agriculture, Ali Bey Tabbara, M.B.E. (Hon.).
Director of Customs, P. Livingstone.
Director of Lands, A. P. Mitchell.
Director of Development, M. G. Ionides.
Treasurer, Abdullah Hamud.
Attorney-General, Nikola Ghanmeh.
O.C. Arab Legion, Lieut.-Col. F. G. Peake, C.B.E.
Second in Command, Arab Legion, Major J. B. Glubb, O.B.E., M.C.

