BARBADOS.

Is situated in latitude 13° 4' North and longitude 59° 37' West, and is the most windward of the Caribbee Islands. It is nearly 21 English miles long by 14 in breadth, and is said to contain a superficial area of 106,470 acres, or about 166 square miles.

The exact date of the discovery of Barbados is not known. It is said to have been first visited by the Portuguese, who finding it uninhabited and rude in appearance, named the isle Los Barbados, from the number of bearded fig-trees which they found. In 1625 Sir William Courteen, a London merchant, under the protection of the Earl of Marlborough, who held a grant of the island from James I, fitted out two large ships, only one of which arrived at Barbados, and the party, which consisted of some thirty persons, landed on the leeward side of the island formed a town called James' (or Hole) Town, and appointed Captain William Deane their governor. In 1627 the Earl of Carlisle obtained a grant from Charles I of all the Caribbee Islands. This grant was opposed by the former patentee, Lord Marlborough, but the matter was compromised on the Earl of Carlisle agreeing to settle on the Earl of Marlborough an annuity of 300l. Soon after this the Earl of Carlisle being employed on a diplomatic mission, the Earl of Pembroke, then Lord Chamberlain, obtained a revocation of the former nobleman's patent in his favour, and supported Sir W. Courteen; but on the Earl of Carlisle's return from his embassy, he remonstrated with the king, who reinstated him in possession of the territory. Wolfestone, a native of Bermuda, was then commissioned by the Earl of Carlisle as governor, and in 1628 sixty-four settlers arrived in Carlisle Bay, commenced the erection of wooden houses, threw a bridge across the river which intersected the ground, and laid the foundation of Bridgetown, the present capital. The leeward and windward men opposed each other, the latter ultimately triumphing. As in all new colonies, the inhabitants met with no inconsiderable difficulties. Local funds were added to domestic privations, but the civil war which raged in England contributed to people and enrich the island; and on the downfall of Charles, many families attached to the Royal cause found shelter in Barbados. The island was afterwards governed by Lord Willoughby, a Royalist, to whom it was conveyed by Lord Carlisle (son of the first patentee); but when the island was subdued by the power of the Commonwealth, he was banished. In 1662, after the restoration of Charles II, Lord Willoughby renewed his claim on Barbados, and the kinsmen and heirs of the two earls brought forward demands on the settlers. To satisfy these claims, a duty of 4½ per cent. on all exports was imposed; and under certain conditions the proprietary government was dissolved and the sovereignty of Barbados annexed to the British Crown. The inhabitants long protested against the imposition of the 4½ per cent. duties, but without success; and it was not till 1838, four years after the abolition of slavery, that the tax was abolished by an Act of Parliament.

Barbados has not, like most of the neighbouring islands, changed owners; it has always remained in possession of Great Britain.

Bridgetown, the chief town and port, is situated in the parish of St. Michael, in latitude 13° 5' 42" North, and longitude 3° 58' 29" West. This town contains, according to the census of 1881, 20,947 inhabitants, exclusive of the shipping, which amounted to 438. In 1861 a most important project for supplying the town with water was completed by a joint-stock company incorporated by an Act of the legislature. A railway from Bridgetown to the parish of Saint Andrew (23 miles as surveyed) was commenced in 1880, and completed on 10th September, 1882.

Carlisle Bay, the harbour of Barbados, is an open roadstead, which is much exposed to the wind from the south and south-west. There is an inner harbour or careenage, protected by a structure
called the Mole Head. The works in connection with this harbour are under the supervision and control of the Governor and Executive Committee.

The island is almost encircled by coral reefs, which in some parts, as in the parish of St. Phillip, extend nearly 3 miles to seaward, and prove very dangerous to navigation. A lighthouse was erected in 1852 on the south point of the islands partly at the expense of the British government. A harbour-light was also placed on Needham's Point in 1853. Another lighthouse was erected on the east coast (in St. Philip's), and lighted on 1st May, 1875, by a second order dioptric flash light, given by the British Government.

