150. Payment for entertainment in Her Majesty's ships is to be calculated according to the dates of the first and last dinner meals taken on board.

151. When Governors, Bishops,* or other Officers who may be entitled to conveyance at the expense of the Imperial Treasury, have to obtain passages in mail packets or private ships, it will be necessary that certified statements of the expenses and of the dates at which they were incurred should, without delay, be sent to the Colonial Office, supported by such vouchers as can be reasonably be procured. Evidence of the ordinary kind, as reference to a tariff (if any), or the certificate of two merchants, should, as a rule, be forwarded, that the rate of charge is usual or reasonable. The statements of other Officers than the Governor must bear his counter-signature of approval. The expenditure will be subject to review, and, if necessary, to disallowance, by the Secretary of State; and it will be desirable, though not indispensable, that his sanction should be obtained before Bills be drawn for the sums spent. Such Bills should be drawn on the Paymaster-General, at not less than ten days' sight and an immediate and direct advice should, in each case, be sent to the Secretary of State.

152. Any question that may arise in connection with passage allowances, &c., and may not have been provided for in the foregoing Regulations, will be separately considered and decided by the Secretary of State.

153. Whenever any person in this country shall be appointed to any Office, the salary and fees (if any) attached to which do not exceed £500 per annum, in a Colony not possessing a Representative Assembly,† the Crown Agents for the Colonies will secure and pay for his passage to the Colony, also those of his wife and children, not exceeding four persons besides himself. The person so appointed will be required to execute an "Agreement" in the form inserted in the Appendix (Page 340). See Circular 20th April, 1871.

154. No outfit is allowed on any occasion.

CHAPTER VI.

§ I. Precedency, Victoria Cross, Foreign Orders, Salutes, and Flags.

155. The precedence of Colonial Officers is in some cases determined by Colonial enactments or Royal Charters, by Instructions communicated either under the Royal Signet and Sign Manual through the Secretary of State, or by authoritative usage. In the absence of any such special authority, Governors are to guide themselves by the subjoined table.

156. Table of precedence of Colonial Officers.

The Governor, Lieutenant-Governor, or Officer administering the Government.

The Senior Officer in command of the Troops, if of the rank of a General, and the Officer in command of Her Majesty's Naval Forces on the Station, if of the rank of an Admiral, their own relative rank being determined by the Queen's Regulations on that subject.

The Bishop.

The Chief Justice.

The Senior Officer in command of the Troops, if of the rank of Colonel or Lieutenant-Colonel, and the Officer in command of Her Majesty's Naval Forces on the Station, if of equivalent rank their own relative rank being determined by the Queen's Regulations on that subject.

The Members of the Executive Council.

The President of the Legislative Council.

The Members of the Legislative Council.

The Speaker of the House of Assembly.

The Puisne Judges.

The Members of the House of Assembly.

The Colonial Secretary (not being in the Executive Council).

The Commissioners or Government Agents of Provinces or Districts.

The Attorney-General.

The Solicitor-General.

The Senior Officer in command of the Troops, if below the rank of Colonel or Lieutenant-Colonel, and the Senior Naval Officer of corresponding rank.

The Archdeacon.

The Treasurer, Paymaster-General, or Collector of Internal Revenue.

The Auditor-General or Inspector-General of Accounts.

The Commissioner of Crown Lands.

The Collector of Customs.

The Comptroller of Customs.

The Surveyor-General.

Clerk of the Executive Council.

Clerk of the Legislative Council.

Clerk of the House of Assembly.

157. In Courts for the trial of Piracy, the Members are to take rank according to the order in which they are designated in Her Majesty's Commission: except in the case of the Naval Commander-in-Chief.

* As to leave of Absence, Passages, and Pensions of Officers on West Coast of Africa, see Chapter XVIII.

† Medical Officers appointed to British Guiana are not allowed passage for their wives or families, and no passages are granted to the wives and families of European Officers proceeding to the West Coast of Africa.

‡ The table of precedence within the Dominion of Canada is given in Appendix 18, p. 351.

§ The Military and Naval Officers upon whom the command would devolve, in the absence of superior officers, will retain the precedence assigned to them by these Regulations, notwithstanding the presence of such superior officers.

Circular, 2nd August, 1884.)
RULES AND REGULATIONS.

138. Persons entitled to precedence in the United Kingdom or in Foreign Countries, are not entitled, as of a right, to the same precedence in the British Colonies; but in the absence of any special Instructions from the Queen, the precedence of such persons relatively to the above-mentioned Colonial Officers will be determined by the Governor, having regard to the social condition of the Colony under his Government.

139. The Queen's Warrants instituting "the Victoria Cross" and extending it to Local Forces in the Colonies, and the Queen's Regulations respecting Foreign Orders and Medals, are inserted in the Appendix (pages 340-43). The Regulations relating to Salutes are contained in the Chapter of "The Queen's Regulations and the Admiralty Instructions for the Government of Her Majesty's Naval Service" which is supplied to every Governor. (See Circular 16th January, 1873, as to the relative position of Naval and Military Officers when taking part in ceremonies on shore. See Circular 30th August, 1873, as to the position to be assigned to a Naval Officer when sitting as a Member of a Court of Enquiry into the circumstances attending the loss of a merchant ship. See Circular of 24th October, 1879, as to precedence of ex-Members of Executive Council who have been allowed to retain to the title of Honourable within the Colony.)

A Colonial Governor absent from his Colony on leave, or otherwise than on a Special Mission expressly authorised by Her Majesty's Government, is not entitled to any salute, or to fly any flag, as these attributes are only allowable when he is actually representing the Sovereign. A Governor so absent should promptly decline all salutes or other official recognitions of a Royal character from any Foreign Ship or Troops; but he should avail himself of any offer made to him to be received on board, or to be conveyed by Her Majesty's ships or boats; though he cannot demand this attention. (Enclosed in Circular, 28th September, 1879.)

(1.) Whenever a requisition is received by any Officer in command of one of Her Majesty's ships, for the embarkation or conveyance of a Governor, High Commissioner, Lieutenant-Governor, or Officer administering the Government of a Colony, the Senior Officer present may direct the special Flag of such official personage to be hoisted at the foretop-gallant masthead of the ship in which he is embarked; provided that he, after consultation with, and on requisition from that official, considers it for the benefit of the service about to be performed that such Flag should be hoisted, and provided that it is only hoisted or carried within the limits of his Government or High Commission in which he would be entitled to be saluted under Article 18, page 4, of the Queen's Regulations and Admiralty Instructions, 1879.

(2.) If the Senior Officer considers it in any circumstances undesirable to hoist the Flag, he is to inform the Governor, High Commissioner, &c., of his reasons, and at once report the same to the Admiralty.

(3.) In the event of a Governor, High Commissioner, &c., of a Colony being detached on a Foreign Mission in his official capacity as Governor or High Commissioner, special instructions will be issued in each case as to the Flag which should be carried by a man-of-war in which he may be embarked; in the absence of which the Senior Officer present is to exercise his discretion in consultation with the official proceeding on the mission. (See Circular, 19 April, 1880.)

§ II. Colonial Uniforms.

160. The Uniform which was formerly worn by certain Colonial Civil Officers has been discontinued and the Uniform of Her Majesty's Civil Service in this country has been substituted for it. But Officers who have already worn the old Uniform may, if they prefer it, continue to wear it, subject to the limitation contained in paragraph 164.

161. The Civil Uniform of the First Class will be worn by the Governors of Canada, Jamaica, New South Wales, Tasmania, South Australia, Victoria, Queensland, New Zealand, Ceylon, Hong Kong, Straits Settlements, Mauritius, Malta, the Cape of Good Hope, British Guiana, Trinidad, and the Governors-in-Chief of the Windward and Leeward Islands; and the Uniform of the Second Class will be worn by Governors of Colonies not comprised in the foregoing list, and by Lieutenant-Governors.

162. The Uniform of the Third Class will be worn by Officers administering the Government of any Colony, but not holding the rank of Lieutenant-Governor, and may be worn by Members of the Colonial Ministry in Colonies having Responsible Government, and by Official Members of the Court of Policy in British Guiana, and of Executive Councils or Councils of Government in other Colonies.

163. Subject to the sanction of Her Majesty, obtained through the Secretary of State, the Uniform of the Fourth Class may be worn by Heads of Principal Departments not having a seat in the Executive Council, or Council of Government, or in the Legislature; and the Uniform of the Fifth Class may be worn by Heads of Subordinate Departments and Chief Assistants in the Principal Departments; but permission to wear the Uniform of the Fourth or Fifth Class shall not be given to the holder of any office in regard to which the Queen shall not have sanctioned the use of such Uniform. Private Secretaries to Governors or Officers administering the Government of all Colonies may wear the Uniform of the Fifth Class. (The following Circulars relate to Uniforms, viz., those of 15th February, 1859; 14th July, 1860; 16th July, 1864; 17th February, 1873; 5th August, 1873; 19th November, 1873; 22nd December, 1873; 31st March, 1880.)

164. No person is entitled without the consent of the Queen to wear the Uniform attached to any Office after he has ceased to hold that office. Such consent can only be obtained on the recommendation of the Governor, made through the Secretary of State, and only in cases of long or meritorious service. No retired Officer will be allowed to wear any other Uniform than that which was attached to his Office during his tenure of it and which he has actually worn.

CHAPTER VII.
CORRESPONDENCE.

§ I. Mode in which Governors and Officers administering Colonial Governments (with certain exceptions in the West Indies and West Africa) are to conduct their Official Correspondence.

165. Governors, or Officers administering Colonial Governments, must address the Secretary of State for the Colonial Department alone on all matters connected with their Government.

166. Every communication, therefore, to whatever Public Department in this Country it may more
RULES AND REGULATIONS.

Immediately relate, must in the first instance be addressed to the Secretary of State, with the exceptions hereafter mentioned; but in cases in which the Colonial Office is merely the channel of communication with other Departments, the matter to be reported may be embodied in a memorandum addressed to the Department concerned, and forwarded to the Secretary of State in a covering despatch.

167. The Governor's Despatches should be written in a large and distinct hand, with dark ink, on folio paper of uniform size; and an inner margin of about one-third of the page should be left.

168. They are to be numbered in succession, commencing annually with a fresh series, without interruption from changes in Her Majesty's Government.

169. Each despatch should be confined as much as possible to a single subject. The paragraphs of each despatch should be numbered, and if it consists of two or more sheets the pages should be numbered.

170. When any Colonial or Imperial law, or any previous letters or despatches, are referred to, they must be described by their numbers and dates, either in the body of the despatch or in the margin.

171. Each despatch must be docketed. The docket should specify the date and place of which the despatch was written, the name of the writer, and of the Secretary of State to whom it is addressed, the subject of the despatch, and the number of its enclosures.

172. Its enclosures should be noted in the margin, and reference made, in the body of the despatch to such portions of them as may require particular attention.

173. The enclosures must be copied separately on folio paper, corresponding in size with the despatch transmitting them, and must also be written in a large and distinct hand, with dark ink; the paragraphs of each enclosure should be numbered. If an enclosure should be a copy of a despatch or letter, it should be preceded by a heading designating the person by whom, the person to whom, it is written, and the date. If it be a copy of a petition or memorial, a similar descriptive heading should be prefixed.

174. Should the enclosures be in any foreign language, translations of them, as well as copies, are to be forwarded.

175. The enclosures are also to be pagéd consecutively through the whole series; but each enclosure should be separately numbered, and docketed like the despatch, and the docket should specify that the document is an "Enclosure in ——— despatch, No. ——— of ———."

176. If any printed documents are transmitted as enclosures, six copies of each should be sent, if they are easily to be procured. In case of newspapers or other printed documents, of which only a portion may require attention, the portion referred to should be cut out, and pasted on foolscap paper, with a note at the head of the date and title of the paper from which it is extracted, the five extra copies required being annexed in an appendix.*

177. Despatches forwarded to the Secretary of State should be accompanied by a schedule, and likewise with a statement of the numbers and dates of all despatches which the Governor may have received from the Secretary of State since the preceding occasion, in lieu of a separate acknowledgment of each despatch.† Duplicates of all important despatches, and of their principal enclosures, should be transmitted to the Secretary of State from the Cape of Good Hope, and all Colonies to the eastward thereof with which there is no telegraphic communication.

177A. With the view of facilitating the despatch of business, and of guarding against neglect or undue delay in the conduct of correspondence, the Governor of a Colony will send home by the first mail of every month,

(1.) A schedule of despatches received from the Secretary of State which have been more than a month in his hands without an answer.

(2.) A schedule of despatches sent by the Governor to the Secretary of State which appear to have remained unanswered for more than one month after having been received.

It should be stated in each case whether any inconvenience is occurring, or likely to occur, by delay in answering. (Enclosure to Circular, 26 October, 1880.)

178. All addresses or petitions to the Queen, on parchment, must be accompanied by a transcript on official paper. Protests by Legislative or Executive Councillors should be unfailingly sent home, and if questions respecting legislative proceedings are referred to the Secretary of State, the reference must always be accompanied by extracts from those proceedings.

179. Every Legislative Act must be accompanied by a statement from the Law Officer of the Crown to the effect that, in his opinion, the Royal Assent may properly be given thereto, or ought not to be, and also by a report from the Governor, or from the Law Officer, giving all requisite explanation respecting the object of the Act, the motive in which it originated, and any legal or political question which it may involve. Such a report should be sent separately with any Act of unusual importance. Other Acts may be transmitted in batches as they receive the Governor's assent.

180. For the due preparation of Drafts of Acts, special rules are laid down in the Governor's Instructions.

181. Every Act must be enrolled in the Chief Court of Justice in the Colony. For the practice of engrossing and enrolling Acts in this country, see the Appendix (Page 343).

182. In the month of January each year, or as soon after as may be practicable, a complete collection should be published, for general information, of all Acts or Ordinances enrolled during the preceding year, and six copies of such collection of Acts, &c., shall be sent home.

183. Whenever it may be found necessary to address the Secretary of State in a more unreserved manner than a Public Despatch would admit with propriety or convenience to the public interest, such

* See Circular, 12th March, 1884.

† Circular.

Sir,—It is required by the 177th Clause of the Colonial Regulations that duplicates of all important Despatches, and of their principal Enclosures should be transmitted to the Secretary of State from the Cape of Good Hope, and all Colonies to the eastward thereof with which there is no Telegraphic communication. The great and increasing facilities of Postal and Telegraphic communication render it unnecessary that this rule should be maintained, except in cases when the loss of a Despatch would be of such very serious public importance as that no means of security against its non-arrival should be neglected. In these cases the duplicate should still be sent by the following mail. A duplicate of the Schedule of Despatches sent by each mail should be sent by the next opportunity. You will issue the instructions necessary to give effect to these alterations in the existing rule.

I have the honour to be, Sir,

Your most obedient humble Servant,

Granville.

The Officer Administering the Government of
communication should be marked "Confidential;" but care must be taken that the regular series of Despatches shall contain a full account of all important transactions in the Colony, so that when Parliament may call for information as to any of those transactions a clear and connected view of what has taken place may be afforded by the numbered Despatches, without adding those which are "Confidential."

184. It will, however, rest with the Secretary of State in every case to decide whether such "Confidential" Despatches are or are not to be considered and recorded as public documents.

185. No allowance on account of travelling expenses will be made to any Officer or other person bringing Despatches to this Department, unless the intelligence transmitted be of such a nature as to appear to the Governor to justify the sending it by a special messenger.

186. Every Governor is enjoined to cause the Secretary of State's Despatches, addressed to himself, as well as copies of his own, addressed to the Secretary of State, whether "Confidential" or not, to be deposited in the Government House, if this has been the usual place of deposit for them, or in some other safe building belonging to the Government.

187. Governors are forbidden to withdraw any public document so deposited, on retiring from their Governments.

188. Governors are also forbidden to give copies of the Secretary of State's Despatches, or Instructions, or to allow them to be taken, unless under a general or special authority from the Secretary of State. But when Responsible Government is established the Governor is generally at liberty to communicate to his Advisers all Despatches not "Confidential." (By Circular of 10 July, 1871, Despatches are reclassified:—1. Numbered, which a Governor may publish unless directed not to do so. 2. Secret, which he may, if he thinks fit, communicate, under the obligation of secrecy, to his Executive Council, and may make public if he thinks it necessary. 3. Confidential, which are addressed to a Governor personally, and which he is forbidden to make known without express authority.)

§ II. Mode in which the Officers administering subordinate Governments are to conduct their Official Correspondence.

189. The Colonies of Barbados,† St. Vincent, Grenada, Tobago, and St. Lucia, are consolidated into one General Government, called the Government of the Windward Islands; the Colonies of Antigua, Montserrat, St. Christopher, Nevis, the Virgin Islands, and Dominica, into a second, called the Government of the Leeward Islands; and the Settlements of Sierra Leone, Gambia, the Gold Coast, and Lagos into a third, called the Government of the West Africa Settlements. The Officers administering the subordinate Governments are, in the West Indies, called Lieutenant-Governors or Presidents, in the West Africa Settlements, Administrators.

190. The correspondence of the Governors-in-Chief with the Secretary of State must be conducted in the mode which has been established by the preceding Regulations; but they will take care to keep the series of Despatches, relating to each Colony within their respective Commands, detached and separate from the rest.

191. During the absence of the Governor-in-Chief from any Island or Settlement comprised within his Command, the Officer administering the Government of that Island or Settlement should correspond with him on all subjects connected with this Office, and should transmit to him all Official Reports and information touching the same, and should apply to him for all such instructions as he may require for his guidance in the discharge of his duties.

192. If, during the absence of the Governor-in-Chief from any subordinate Government within the limits of his Command, exigencies should arise, in which it may be necessary that immediate instructions should be obtained from the Secretary of State, the Officer administering a subordinate Government is authorised to apply to the Secretary of State direct for instructions in relation thereto, if by so doing the Secretary of State can receive his Despatch at an earlier date than would be practicable through the intervention of the Governor-in-Chief.

193. Every such Officer will be required to transmit by the earliest opportunity to the Governor-in-Chief, or Officer administering the General Government, a copy of every Despatch or communication which he may, under this permission, address direct to the Secretary of State.

194. The Secretary of State will communicate his answer to any such Despatch, as may be most expedient, either to the Governor-in-Chief or direct to the Officer from whom he may have received it transmitting in the latter case a copy of the answer to the Governor-in-Chief.

