HELIGOLAND.

An island situated in the North Sea, in 7° 51' E. long. and 54° 11' N. lat., opposite, and about 25 miles from, the mouth of the Elbe. Area, inclusive of the adjacent island termed "Sandy," three-quarters of a square mile. The population, as taken at the census of 1881, was 2,001.

Heligoland was surrendered to the British arms in 1807, and formally ceded to Great Britain by Denmark in the Treaty of Kiel, 1814. It was formerly much larger than it now is, in fact the two islands, now nearly a mile apart, formed one up to 1720, when a storm separated them. It is on Sandy Island that the sea bathing, perhaps the finest in the world, takes place. The reefs round the islands are very dangerous, and wrecks, formerly were very common; now an excellent lighthouse with a fog signal station render them fortunately of rare occurrence. A rocket station and life saving apparatus are also established on both islands, and are worked by the English and local Coast Guard.

The main island is a red sandstone cliff about 170 feet high, with (but in one spot) inaccessible sides. The town is divided into two parts, the Unterland on the beach containing the Bathing Establishment (hot and swimming baths), Conversations House, Theatre, Coast Guard Barracks, Hotels, &c.; the Oberland, to which access is now obtained by a flight of 192 steps, and by a lift worked by steam power, contains the largest number of houses, including the church, schools, lighthouse, governor's residence, &c.

From its isolated position Heligoland is wonderfully healthy, its climate being most bracing, equable, and mild, cooler in summer and warmer in winter than either England or the Continent.

From 9,000 to 10,000 visitors generally come over during the bathing season, from May to October, exclusive of excursionists, who flock over in large numbers from the neighbouring towns.

The Heligolanders formerly existed solely by pilotage and fishing. In 1830, public gaming tables were established (they were abolished in 1871), and subsequently the island became one of the most fashionable bathing places of North Europe, so that now the inhabitants live mainly by fishing in the winter, and the letting of lodging houses, and the proceeds of the bathing establishment, in summer. Pilotage has almost entirely ceased, the larger vessels fitted out in the Elbe and Weser enabling the pilots from these rivers to go further out to sea to seek for ships.

Heligoland was governed under its antique Frisian constitution until 1864, when a new and more directly representative form of Government was substituted; but this constitution not having been found to work in a manner conducive to the
interests of order and good government, the legislative and executive authority were centred in the hands of the Governor, by an Order of Her Majesty in Council, bearing date 29th February, 1868. By this Order in Council an Executive Council was established to afford advice to the Governor.

The inhabitants have a pure but unwritten language of their own, and are of Frisian origin. They belong entirely to the German Lutheran Church. Education is compulsory between the ages of 6 to 14. 345 children attend the one Government school in the island, and are taught in both the German and English languages.

The only imports subject to duty are wine per 40 bottles (anker), of value of 3s. per bottle, 14s. of less value, 10s.

Spirits 1f. on each anker of 37-67 litres, when such spirits do not exceed a strength of 40°, and 5s. extra for every 10° of additional strength. Beer, per anker (40 bottles), 3s. Petroleum, per cwt., 3s.

Connection with the mainland is maintained by steamers leaving Bremerhaven once a week in winter, and by 22 steamers a week from the neighbouring ports in the summer months. The island is also connected with the Continent by telegraph.

The Governor is judge of the Court of Sessions, and in matrimonial and divorce cases is assisted by the clergyman and J. G. Bule.

List of Governors and Lieutenant-Governors since 1847:

1807. Lt. C. J. D'Auvergne, R.N., Lt.-Governor.
1814. Lt.-Col. Hamilton, Lt.-Governor.
1817. Sir H. King, Lt.-Governor.
1830. Admiral Sir J. Hindmarsh, Lt.Governor.
1857. Major R. Pattinson, Lt.-Governor.
1863. Major H. F. H. B. Maxse, Lt.-Governor.
1868. Lt.-Col. Sir H. F. H. B. Maxse, K.C.M.G., Governor.
1881. Lt.-Col. J. T. N. O'Brien, C.M.G., Governor.

Governor and Com.-in-Chief, Lieut.-Col. J. T. N. O'Brien, C.M.G., 800l.
Government Secretary, H. Gätke, 130l.
Superintendents Magistrate, Capt. J. Campbell, 50l.
Clerk of Courts and Supervisor of Public Works, P. Botter, 30l.
Town Clerk, Treasurer and Director of Bathing Establishment, K. N. Michelis, 54l.
Postmaster, D. Hornsmann, 54l.
Government Interpreter, Louis Gätke, 40l.
Wreck Receiver, The Chief Boatman in charge of the Coast Guard, — Cooper, R.N., 30l.
Pilot Inspector, Peter Bartz, 6l., and fees.
Chaplain and Superintendent of Schools, Rev. H. Schröder, 100l., and fees.
Head Teacher, A. Kuhlmann, 100l.
2nd " J. Berndt, 50l.
3rd " J. Lehmann, 45l.
4th " T. Schmidt, 45l.
Medical Officer, Dr. E. Lindemann.
