195. Officers administering subordinate Governments will be guided, in their correspondence with the Governors-in-Chief, by the general Regulations which have been established by the Secretary of State in the preceding sections of this Chapter.

196. So long as the Governor-in-Chief is not present within the limits of his command, the above instructions must be understood to attach to the Acting Governor-in-Chief.

§ III. Military Correspondence.

197. The Governors of Colonies, commanding Her Majesty's Troops therein must separate their correspondence with the Secretary of State for the Colonies, and the Secretary of State for War, in the following manner:

198. Whatever relates to the discipline of the Troops, or to the employment of them in any ordinary and established Service, or to the relief of the Troops after their time of local Service shall have expired, or to the interior economy of Her Majesty's Land Forces, will properly form the subject of correspondence with the Secretary of State for War exclusively.

199. In the event of actual hostilities with any Foreign Enemy, or of any extraordinary employment of the troops for the maintenance of the public peace, such occurrences must be reported both to the Secretary of State for War and to the Secretary of State for the Colonies.

200. In the event of its being thought necessary to make or to advise any Military Convention with the Officer in command of the Troops of any Foreign Power, a Governor commanding Her Majesty's Troops will at the same time report to the Secretary of State for the Colonies, and to the Secretary of

*The West Africa Settlements are now divided into two Governments of the "West Africa Settlements" and the "Gold Coast Colony"—(P.C.O.L.)

†In 1834 Barbados was constituted a separate Government (vide supra, Part II.).
State for War, the measures which he may have so taken, or those which he may wish to recommend for adoption.

201. In case it should be necessary, in order to render the Governor's Military Reports intelligible, to make reference, in his correspondence with the Secretary of State for War, to topics connected with his Civil Authority, he will in every such case at the same time bring under the notice of the Secretary of State for the Colonies the questions of Civil Government to which he may thus have had occasion to advert.

202. As any attempt to define the limits of a Governor's Civil and Military Correspondence may, from the nature of the case, be imperfect, and may omit to provide for some unforeseen exigency, it will best fulfil the joint pleasure of the Secretary of State for War and of the Secretary of State for the Colonies by conducting his Civil Correspondence exactly as he would conduct it if he possessed no Military Command, and vice versa. The two functions of Governor and of Commander of the Forces, though for the time combined in the same person, should be regarded in this respect as entirely separate, and the reports made by the Governor in each capacity should be made precisely in the same manner as if that combination of powers did not exist.

203. The preceding instructions will apply also to the Governor's Correspondence respecting the Service of the Commissariat.

204. The respective officers employed under the War Office are in all cases without exception to give timely notice to Governors of any communications which they may intend to send home, affecting such Governors or the orders given by them, so that Her Majesty's Government may be simultaneously made acquainted with the opinions of the Governors and with the opinion of those Officers on any matter on which it is requisite that the views of both should be known.

205. When the Civil Governor of a Colony shall have occasion to report upon, or bring under the consideration of the Secretary of State for the Colonies, matters which involve military as well as civil considerations, or which require the decision or concurrence of the Secretary of State for War, the Governor will first communicate with the Officer in Command of the Forces in the Colony respecting the matters in question; and having obtained that officer's opinion or observations thereupon, he will transmit the same with his own report to the Secretary of State for the Colonies.

206. The Officer in command of the Forces is similarly instructed, to obtain the opinion of the Governor before reporting to the Secretary of State for War, or to any Officer under whose general Command he is placed, on any matter which involves civil as well as military considerations, or which cannot be decided without reference to the Secretary of State for the Colonies.

207. The Officer in command of the Forces has been instructed to send to the Governor duplicates of all reports on whatever subjects, other than those relating to discipline and the routine of the service, which he may have occasion to send to the Secretary of State for War or to any Officer under whose general command he is placed. In case the Governor considers that these reports require the consideration of the Secretary of State for the Colonies, he is to forward the duplicates with his observations by the same mail which conveys the original report to the Secretary of State for War.

§ IV. Naval Correspondence.

208. Governors of Colonies should communicate with Officers of Her Majesty's Navy, and should convey notices of different kinds to Commanders of Foreign Vessels in Colonial waters, in the following mode.

209. The Governor will write in his own name to any Senior Naval Officer (that is to say, the Senior Officer then within his immediate reach), holding the rank of Flag Officer, Captain, or Commander, but will communicate with any Senior Officer of lower rank through his Private Secretary. In no case will he communicate through the Colonial Secretary, whose functions are of a different character, and whose Office should not be the place of deposit for communications between the Governor and Officers in Command of Her Majesty's Naval forces.

210. Any notice or direction, conveyed by the Governor's authority to the Commander of any Foreign Vessel, should be conveyed through the Officers of the Colonial Government, and not through the Officers of Her Majesty's Navy, whose intervention should not be applied for, unless the directions conveyed through the ordinary channel should fail to produce their effect.

§ V. Correspondence between the Postmaster-General in this Country, and the Postmasters, Packet Agents, &c., in the Colonies, upon matters affecting the Governor, or Orders given by his Authority.

215. Whenever any Postmaster, Packet Agent, or other Public Functionary acting under the immediate Orders and Instructions of Her Majesty's Postmaster-General, shall have occasion to transmit to the Postmaster-General any complaint or representation respecting the conduct of the Local Government of any of its Officers, he must simultaneously place in the hands of the Governor a copy of so much or any such report as it may be requisite for the Governor to answer, so that the complaint and the explanation may reach this Country at the same time.

216. Should the Governor have occasion to make to the Secretary of State any complaint or representation respecting the conduct of an Officer employed under Her Majesty's Postmaster-General, he will apprise such Officer of the precise nature of the complaint or representation which he proposes to forward, in order that the Officer to whom it relates may be enabled at once to transmit to the Postmaster-General any explanation which he may have to offer with respect to his conduct.

§ VI. Correspondence of Individuals.

217. Persons in a Colony, whether Public Functionaries or private individuals, who have any representations of a public or private nature to make to Government, should address them to the Governor of the Colony; or, if the Colony be a dependency of a Governor-in-Chief, then to the Officer in the immediate administration of its Government.

218. The duty of the Governor or Administrator of the Colony is to receive and act upon each such representation as public expediency or justice to the individual may appear to require, with the assistance in certain cases of his Executive Council; and if he doubts what steps to take thereupon, or if public advantage may appear to require it, to consult or report to the Secretary of State. Every individual has, however, the right to address the Secretary of State, if he thinks proper. But in this
case he must transmit such communication, unsealed, and in triplicate, to the Governor or Administrator applying to him to forward it in due course to the Secretary of State.

219. Every letter, memorial, or other document which may be received by the Secretary of State from a Colony otherwise than through the Governor, will, unless a very pressing urgency justifies a departure from the rule, be referred back to the Governor for his report.

220. This rule, requiring transmission of correspondence with the Secretary of State through the Governor, is based on the strongest grounds of public convenience, in order that all communications may be duly verified, as well as reported on, before they reach the Secretary of State. It extends, therefore, to communications relating to public affairs as well as the concerns of the writer; to those of all Public Functionaries of whatever rank, and to those from public bodies.

221. Petitions addressed to the Queen, or the Queen in Council, memorials to Public Officers or Boards in Her Majesty's Government, &c., must be in like manner sent to the Governor for transmission home.

222. The Governor is bound to transmit to the Secretary of State every communication so received by him, accompanied by such report as its contents may appear to him to require.

223. He is to do this with all reasonable despatch, consistently, however, with the delay requisite for the preparation of such report.

224. The Public Officers and other inhabitants of the Windward and of the Leeward Islands and of the West Africa Settlements, will look upon the Governor-in-Chief of each of those Governments as the Referee on all occasions when they are dissatisfied with the judgment formed upon their cases by the Lieutenant-Governor of the particular Island or by the Administrator of the Settlement in which they may reside.

225. If they should wish to appeal from the judgment of the Governor-in-Chief to that of the Secretary of State, they are of course at liberty to do so, adhering strictly to the regulations which are above established.

226. In any reports to be made, either by Lieutenant-Governors or Administrators to the Governors-in-Chief, or by the Governors-in-Chief to the Secretary of State, of questions for decision, they will adopt the following rules:

227. The Report should comprise three distinct divisions: the first containing a simple narrative of the facts of the case, in the order in which they have occurred, as collected from the documents under consideration, showing merely the substance of the statements made, and of the rights asserted, or the complaints alleged by the respective parties concerned; the second containing the views of the writer as to the merits or demerits of the parties, or the justice of their several claims or complaints, with the reasons upon which those views proceed; and the third, the decision at which the writer has arrived, after a full investigation of the whole case.

228. In any Report or Despatch addressed to the Secretary of State, care should be taken to refer the Secretary of State to former documents in his possession which may bear on the case, with their dates. But this is not to prevent the writer from embodying the substance of such former documents in his Report or Despatch, if he judge that greater clearness or saving of labour is thereby attainable.

§ VII. Attestation of Documents.

229. The attestation of Signatures to Documents can only take place upon a full knowledge or intimate belief in the genuineness of those Signatures, and as a general rule, the Secretary of State can only undertake to attest those of Governors or Officers administering Government.

230. Persons, therefore, who may have occasion to instruct their friends or agents in any Colony to send to them certificates, or powers of attorney, or judicial acts, for legal use in this Country, should take care to have these documents authenticated in the Colony by the Officer administrating the Government.

231. The same rule must particularly be observed by the Governor in sending home documents which, after being verified in England, are intended to be used in foreign Countries. The last signature attached by way of attestation to any such document must invariably be one which is known and can therefore be certified to in this Department. If possible it should always be that of the Officer administering the Government.

CHAPTER VIII.

FINANCIAL AND OTHER RETURNS TO BE FURNISHED TO HER MAJESTY'S GOVERNMENT.

§ I. Returns relating to Colonial Revenues and Receipts.

232. A Return of the regular revenue, arising from local taxes and duties, under each head, distinguishing the arrears of preceding years from the receipts of the current year.

233. Of the revenue derived from rents or other proceeds of Crown property.

234. Of casual revenue and incidental receipts, including judicial fines and forfeitures, escheats, and other similar droits of the Crown, and recoveries of debts from individuals.

235. Of repayments of colonial advances, or other receipts on account, of that description.

236. Of receipts in aid of revenue, included loans raised, drafts on account of Parliamentary Grants, or other advances from the funds of this Country, issues of paper currency, and deposits from the courts of law, or otherwise, which may be for a time available for the purposes of the Colonial Government.

237. Of deposits not so available.

§ II. Returns relating to Disbursements.

238. A Return of civil charges regularly authorised by Her Majesty's Government, or by Acts of Local Legislatures which have received Her Majesty's assent, classed under the heads of salaries, and incidental and contingent charges, specifying the amount expended under each head for each public department, and including judicial and ecclesiastical Establishments paid by the Government.

239. Schedules should be furnished at the expiration, if possible, of every Quarter, of all charges,
whatever of an unusual or special description, which are not covered by the approved Estimate of the year, or by a Supplementary Estimate; the Schedule to be arranged in four columns:—

1. Showing item of expenditure.
2. Date of reference to the Secretary of State for his approval or disapproval.
3. Date of the answer of the Secretary of State, or the remark that "no answer has been received."
4. Inserting the words "approved" or "disapproved," as the case may be.

240. Of Military charges, if defrayed from Colonial Funds, and not paid by Officers accounting to the Military Departments in this country, under the heads of regimental pay and subsistence of Local Corps, Militia, or Volunteers.

241. Of advances for the Colonial Service (to be subsequently repaid or accounted for to the Colonial Authorities), including remittances to Agents.

242. Of advances from the Colonial Funds to the Treasury chests, or otherwise, for services to be accounted for by the Officers to whom the advances are made to their respective Departments in this Country.

243. Of repayment of loans, or advances in aid of revenue, and payments for interest thereon, paper currency cancelled, or other debts liquidated.

244. Of repayments of deposits.

245. Of special and particular services, not attaching to the ordinary Colonial Establishments, such as Indian Presents, the expenditure for Liberated Africans in Sierra Leone and in the West Indies, and in the cases of Tasmania, Western Australia, and Gibraltar, the charges for the maintenance, clothing, and lodging the Convicts, and for Establishments connected with their immediate superintendence and management; any sums received for their labour being stated by way of deduction from the gross amount of the expenditure.

246. As there are variations in the charges defrayed from revenues at the disposal of the Colonial Governments, comprising in some instances expenses of a public nature, which, in others, are provided for by separate and special rates, not levied or accounted for by the Officers of Government, it would be desirable to receive the best Returns that can be obtained of the produce and appropriation of all such dues or tolls as are levied or applied by Local Municipal Bodies or Officers, or as may have been imposed by law for any specific purposes, including legislative provision for Ecclesiastical, Scholastic, or Charitable Establishments.

247. All appointments to public Offices, and all alterations made in the salaries or allowances of Public Officers, as also of all payments of an unusual and special description directed or sanctioned by the Governor or Officer commanding.

248. The Returns mentioned in the last article should be made out in the forms inserted in the Appendix (Page 341), but the Governor must not regard their transmission as relieving him from further explanations and responsibility.

249. The quarterly returns should be accompanied by a short abstract of the transactions of the Treasurer, or other Officer accountable to the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury, in the application of the Colonial Funds, showing the amount of his receipts and disbursements during the quarter, and the balances in hand, or available, at the commencement and end of it.

250. In cases in which the accounts of revenue and expenditure of the preceding year are transmitted to this country, for examination and audit, they should be forwarded on or before the 1st of April in each year.

251. The salary of the Treasurer, or other proper Officer, must not be issued to him until he has certified to the Governor that he has complied with his instructions.

252. The Auditor will transmit through the Governor such Reports as he may from time to time have to send home, in order that the Governor may have an opportunity of adding any explanations which he may consider requisite in order to obviate the necessity of a further reference to the Colony.

253. All accounts of expenditure of public money must be accompanied by authenticated copies of, or extracts from, such of the Secretary of State's Despatches as may be referred to in the accounts, in support of particular items of expenditure.

254. Except so far as relates to money transactions between the Imperial and Colonial Governments the foregoing Regulations from 232 to 253 inclusive are only applicable to Crown Colonies.

255. In Colonies receiving aid from the British Treasury toward the expense of the Civil Government the Governor must furnish an annual statement of the total amount (without details) of the revenue (not including the Parliamentary grant), and of the expenditure for the preceding year, and this statement should be forwarded so as to reach the Colonial Office by the end of November each year.

256. Returns for Parliament of Revenue and Expenditure should be sent for the last year for which they can be made up, according to the tabular forms inserted in the Appendix (P. 345).

§ III. Other Periodical Returns.*

257. A Table of Duties payable on articles imported into, and exported from, the Colony should be punctually forwarded in duplicate so as to arrive in this country shortly before the 31st December of each year, with a view to enable the Board of Trade to prepare, at as early a period of the Session as possible, the Colonial Abstract and other papers annually laid before Parliament. In such table all additional rates levied on Imports and Exports under any special Acts or Regulations should be specified. (Enclosure to Circular of 25th January, 1881).

258. Copies of the Minutes of the Proceedings of Legislative Councils and Assemblies, and in Colonies not possessing responsible Government, of Executive Councils.

259. Lists of Members of Executive and Legislative Councils, specifying the date of their appointment, and whether they hold any other Office in the Colony. Similar lists are to be sent on announcing any provisional appointment to either Council, distinguishing those who are absent on leave and those whose appointments are provisional.

260. A return of changes which may occur from time to time under the provisions of the Vice-

* See also Circular, 17th September, 1885.
Admiralty Courts Act of 1863, in the persons holding the office of Judge Marshal or Registrar for communication to the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty.

261. In Colonies in which it is customary to print the Laws the Governor will send home not fewer than eighteen, or in case of Acts affecting the Constitution, or containing a suspending clause, or reserved for the signification of Her Majesty's pleasure, twenty-one copies of all Acts passed during the Session of the Colonial Legislature, and six manuscript copies where the laws are not printed; and Her Majesty's Government will send out annually to the respective Governors, for the use of the Colonial Legislatures and Courts of Justice, copies of the British Statutes. Of the printed copies of Acts eleven are to be sent under flying covers, addressed as below. Those intended for the Colonial Office, House of Lords and House of Commons should be sent home as soon as printed. The copies for the other public departments and societies should be sent once a-year to the Crown Agents for the Colonies, for distribution.

1. House of Lords.
2. House of Commons.
3. To the Board of Trade.
4. To the British Museum.
5. To the Incorporated Law Society.
6. To the Library of the Faculty of Advocates of Scotland.
7. The Library of Lincoln's Inn.
8. The Library of the Inner Temple.
9. The Library of the Middle Temple.
10. The Library of Gray's Inn.
11. The Library of King's Inns, Dublin.

Copies of all official publications are to be forwarded to the British Museum.

262. Four copies of every new compilation or corrected edition of the Colonial Laws are to be forwarded to the Secretary of State.

263. Two copies of the Colonial Book Almanack for the current year, and copies of Government Gazettes, and generally of such books or pamphlets issuing from the Colonial Press as may be useful to this Department, and of the principal newspapers published in the Colony. (Special instructions as to the newspapers to be sent home issued in Circulars, 31st October, 1870, and 10th June, 1871.)

264. A return for the preceding year of all retired allowances upon abolition and reduction of Office, specifying the total amount at the beginning of the year; the diminution occasioned by death or otherwise; the addition made during the past year; the age and length of service of each person so added; and the saving of establishment which shall have been made in each such case.

265. A return of all Officers whose duties are executed by deputy, and of all Officers absent upon leave; with the date from which their leave commenced, and to which it extends.

266. A return of Stipendiary Magistrates paid in whole or in part from British Funds, in the following form:

| Name | Date of Appointment | Paid from British Funds | Salary, and Allowances, if any, from other Sources |
|------|--------------------|-------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|
|      |                    |                         | Salary. Allowances.                              |

267. In Colonies possessing considerable quantities of waste land in course of settlement, the Surveyor-General should be required once a year to present a return of the progress of his department, for transmission to the Secretary of State. Besides making these regular returns, Governors are particularly enjoined to keep the Secretary of State punctually informed of the progress of geographical and scientific exploration in the Colonies, and in particular to transmit reports of journeys of discovery and investigations of the natural history and capabilities of particular districts, with such maps and surveys as may be required for elucidation.

§ IV. The Annual "Blue Book."

268. In addition to the particular Returns mentioned in the preceding Section, the annual "Blue Book," containing specific accounts of the Civil Establishments, of the Colonial Revenue and Expenditure, and of various statistical particulars, &c., must be completed as early as possible after the close of each year. The various Returns which it comprises must be filled up with the greatest possible accuracy; and the statistical tables must be full and complete. Blank copies of this book, in sheets, will be annually transmitted to each Colony from the Colonial Office.

269. The Colonial Secretary will be responsible for the general preparation of the "Blue Book," and for its being completed during the first quarter of the year succeeding that for which it is designed, and he must certify the accuracy of its contents.

270. The Governor must send home the "Blue Book" in duplicate. He is to retain one copy for the use of the Executive Government, and in the Legislative Colonies to lay a copy of it before the Council and the House of Assembly respectively.

271. The Governor, in transmitting the "Blue Book" to this Department, must accompany it with a Report, which should be written on one side of the paper only, exhibiting generally the past and present state of the Colony, and its prospects under the several heads specified in the Book. That Report will be laid before both Houses of Parliament.

It should be, as much as may be, complete within itself, and if it be unavoidable to append other Returns than those to be found in the Blue Book reported upon, they should be of a summary character, and clear of such local details as are of no use and significance elsewhere than on the spot; bearing in mind that the extent to which what is printed for Parliament shall be circulated and read, will depend much on the degree to which it is substantive and succinct.
CHAPTER IX.

§ I. Requisitions from Colonies.

272. Requisitions from the Colonies for articles costing in the aggregate less than 100l. should be made direct to the Crown Agents, by the proper Colonial Officer. Every requisition should bear a reference to the law or ordinance, if any, by which the expenditure is sanctioned; or if not so sanctioned, should be reported to the Secretary of State by the same mail as that by which it is made upon the Crown Agents, in order that it may be countermanded if the Secretary of State should think it improper.

273. A requisition for articles costing in the aggregate more than 100l. must be transmitted to the Secretary of State in the first instance in duplicate, and not to the Crown Agents for the Colonies.

273A. Requisitions should in no case be made directly, or through local merchants, upon firms in this country, although the names of the firms whose goods have given most satisfaction may be mentioned in the body of the requisition, in order that if the Secretary of State should so decide, they may be asked to tender, through the Crown Agents, for a further supply of the same articles.

274. It must be certified in each case whether such requisitions are made "for the current supply of an established and customary service," and sanctioned by Her Majesty's Government, or for articles of an extraordinary nature, or for a service not so sanctioned.

275. In the latter case it is necessary that the requisitions should be accompanied with all the explanations necessary for the guidance of Her Majesty's Government in determining whether they should or should not be complied with.

276. The list containing the specific articles required must be attested by the Governor.

277. No requisition must be made to replace articles spoilt or worn out until a Board of Survey, consisting of not less than three Public Officers, of whom the Colonial Secretary should in general be President, has been held upon the articles. A certificate of the Board, stating that the articles in question are unserviceable and require to be replaced, must accompany the requisition.

278. The Officer at the head of the Department must be debited with the unserviceable articles, or the Board of Survey must give directions for having them sold by public auction, whenever the quantity accumulated shall render such sale expedient.

279. Every Board of Survey must furnish the Governor with a Report of their proceedings.

280. They are also required to consider and report to the Governor the propriety of every requisition for articles to be supplied for the public service, taking care that no article is demanded which is not absolutely necessary.

281. Governors are expected to revise the requisitions and the Reports of the Boards, and to direct the Boards to reconsider their reports should it be necessary; and to forward them to the Secretary of State with their own observations.

282. The Crown Agents are authorised in the case of those Colonies by which they are employed, but which do not contribute anything to the support of their establishment, to add 5 per cent. to the gross amount of their invoices to cover departmental expenses.

282A. In any case in which a Colony, not habitually employing the Crown Agents, makes a remittance to them of funds (in whatever manner or for whatever purpose), the Governor is to forward to the Secretary of State by the same mail the particulars of such remittance.

§ II. Government Houses, Furniture, &c.

283. The Governor will insert in the annual "Blue Book" a general Report on the state of repair, &c. of the Government House or Houses, the state of the furniture, and the arrangements under which it is provided.

284. The Government House, together with its stables, out-buildings, fences, and other appurtenances, will be kept in substantial repair throughout, at the cost of the Colony. The rooms will be painted, and papered (when necessary), and furnished at the public expense. Plate and table ornaments to a moderate and reasonable amount, and crockery, glass, cutlery, and kitchen utensils will also be provided at the cost of the Colony. Unless it is otherwise provided by local law the Governor will pay 5 per cent. per annum on the estimated value of the furniture in the bed-rooms, kitchens, and other rooms not used for the public reception of company, and of all other articles provided at the cost of the Colony, and used by him, but he will be subject to no charge on account of the furniture of the reception rooms or of the offices used by himself or by his Private Secretary or Aide-de-Camp. For the purpose of arriving at the estimated value of the furniture, and other articles on which the Governor is to pay a percentage, a valuation will be made by such persons as may be appointed for that purpose by the Executive Council on the Governor's assumption of the Government and annually thereafter during the Governor's tenure of office.

284A. Arrangements have been entered into between the Crown Agents and Contractors to keep always in stock a selected pattern of crockery and glass for a best and second best service for dinner and dessert as well as for breakfast, tea, and coffee sets, with a badge consisting of a Royal Crown, the letters V.R. in a monogram, and the name of the Colony and the words "Government House" on a scroll beneath.

285. All the Chapel plate and furniture, and pictures of the Royal Family, which may have been formerly supplied to Governors' houses, are to be considered public property, and not to be removed on any account.

286. All furniture and plate supplied at the public expense is to be kept complete; and any article lost or damaged, otherwise than by fair wear, is to be made good at the expense of the Officer occupying the Government House for the time being.

287. It is the duty of every Governor to keep an accurate inventory of all furniture and plate provided at the public expense; of which inventory he must cause one copy to be retained in the Government House, and one to be delivered to some one Officer of his Government, who, on satisfying himself that the inventory so delivered to him is correct, will be held responsible for its safe custody.

288. The Governor must from time to time, and not seldom than once in every two years, require and direct the Officer, whom he may appoint as above, to make an inspection of the furniture, and plate, comparing the several articles with the inventory in his possession; and that Officer is to prepare
RULES AND REGULATIONS.

289. Within one month from the date of an inspection, such Officer shall deliver to the Governor a report thereof, in which shall be noted the deficiencies, if any.

290. On each occasion of a Colonial Governor vacating his Government, a similar inspection and report are to be made; and if the retiring Officer does not cause the deficiencies for which he is responsible to be repaired or made good, the inspecting Officer (in communication with the Officer who may succeed to the Government) is to prepare and transmit to the Secretary of State a statement of the expense to be incurred for that purpose, in order to the recovery of the amount from the responsible Officer.

291. The Government Offices in the respective Colonies may also be supplied, at the public expense, with such furniture, of a plain but substantial kind, as may be absolutely requisite for the proper accommodation of the persons belonging to the Departments, while engaged in the transaction of the public business.

292. The same regulations are to be observed in regard to the custody and repair of furniture supplied to Government Offices at the public expense as have been established in the case of Governors' residences. (As to making good defective crockery and supply of same pattern through the Crown Agents, see Circular, 30th August, 1880.)

(See also Circular of 8th January, 1878.)

CHAPTER X.

§ I. Custody of Public Moneys in Colonies not possessing Representative Assemblies.

293. The Governor may, with the concurrence of the Council, avail himself of the services of any Banking Establishments in the Colony for the deposit of all, or any portion of the public moneys arising from Colonial revenue or other Colonial receipts, as well as for the transaction of public business connected with the financial arrangements of the Colony, provided such Establishments shall have been formed under Charter from the Crown, or under local Legislative Enactments, which have received the assent of the Crown; taking care, however, that it is well understood, that any moneys placed in the Banks are liable to fluctuation in amount, or to be withdrawn, according to the exigencies of the public services.

294. When no Chartered Banks or Banking Establishments, approved as before mentioned, exist, or where it is not thought advisable to employ them, or when they may be had recourse to for the deposit of part only of the public money, the Governor will cause a secure fire-proof vault or safe to be constructed, either for the office of the Treasurer or in some other appropriate Building, for the deposit of all surplus moneys. This building is to be duly watched and guarded, and the door of the vault or safe to be furnished with three different locks, the keys of which are to be kept by, and under the separate charge—one, of the Treasurer, and the others of such two principal Officers of the Government as the Governor may consider it most expedient to appoint for such purpose.

295. The Colonial Treasurer, or Receiver-General, is to keep under his own immediate charge, such sums of money only as may be necessary to meet the current disbursements of his Department, not exceeding a certain fixed maximum. If Banking Establishments be employed for the deposit only of surplus moneys, or if a strong vault be used for that purpose, the Treasurer's separate balance will, in either case, be regulated by the average amount of his monthly ordinary expenditure; but if recourse shall be had to the Banking Establishments for the transaction of current business, as well as for the deposit of surplus moneys, the balance to be left in the hands of the Treasurer will be of small amount, to meet only minor incidental expenses.

296. When it is necessary to fix or alter the amount of the maximum balance which may remain in the hands of the Treasurer, the Governor will, after the necessary inquiries, report to the Secretary of State, for the consideration of the Lords of the Treasury, the sum which he may decide upon for such maximum balance, accompanying this report by statements of the Treasurer's average monthly ordinary receipts and disbursements (distinguishing fixed revenue from incidental receipts, and pay and salaries from contingent disbursements), and by such other explanations and observations as may have been submitted to him, and upon which he may have grounded his decision.

297. In order that the Governor may at all times have the means of informing himself as to the state and disposal of the public balance, and of providing effectually for its verification, he will cause the Regulations which he has received from the Lords of the Treasury in this respect to be strictly observed by all concerned.

298. If the Governor shall have availed himself of the services of a Banking Establishment in the Colony, he will require from the Secretary, or other proper Officer of such Establishment, a monthly statement of all sums deposited in and withdrawn from the Bank, and of the balance of public money remaining in the Bank at the end of each month.

299. The Governor will take care that arrangements are made with the Directors or Managers of these Establishments, so that the Colonial Treasurer, Receiver-General, or other Accountant, shall not have sole control over the sums deposited therein.

300. To effect this object the cheques on the Bank for the payment of ordinary disbursements should invariably be countersigned by the Officer next in rank at the Treasurer's or Accountant's office.

301. In those cases where the Banks may be had recourse to only for the deposit of surplus moneys, the cheques should be countersigned by the Governor, as his warrant of authority to the Bank for the re-issue of the money.

302. When the Banks are used for deposits, and also for the transaction of the current business of the Government, it is necessary that the Governor should fix the maximum sum for which the Treasurer's draft, countersigned by his principal Assistant, may be honoured, and beyond which sum the Governor's warrant of authority, as above described, is to be required in addition.

303. If the surplus funds, or any portion thereof, shall be deposited in a strong vault, the Governor is to require from the three Officers in charge a quarterly return of the moneys deposited therein.

304. The strong vault is on no occasion to be opened, nor is any money to be deposited therein or withdrawn therefrom, except by the three persons entrusted with the keeping of the separate keys, and by an order or warrant under the Governor's signature (such orders or warrants to be for round sums).
addressed to the Treasurer or Accountant, and to the two other Officers concerned; and the three Officers entrusted with the keys, and present at the opening of the vault, are to sign a joint certificate as to every sum deposited, which certificate is to be delivered to the Treasurer, to be annexed with other vouchers to his accounts.

305. The Treasurer is, in like manner, to sign receipts in duplicate for every amount re-issued to him, which receipts are to be delivered to the other Officers in charge of the vault.

306. In case of illness, absence, or other unavoidable circumstance interfering with the strictly personal duty prescribed by these regulations, the written authority of the Governor is to be obtained for any temporary transfer of the key to another Officer.

307. The Governor will cause to be prepared on the 1st days of January, April, July, and October of each year, a statement of the sums of the funds of the Colonial chest, in the form prescribed for that purpose by the Lords of the Treasury. (See also Circular, 7th May, 1878.)

308. The Governor will also cause an examination of the funds of Colonial chests to be made twice in each year, or as much oftener as he may think fit to direct, at uncertain periods, and without any previous notice, and he will immediately forward to the Secretary of State the certificates of quarterly surveys as well as those made at uncertain periods; duplicate copies of these certificates are also to be annexed to the Colonial Treasurer's accounts. (See also Circular, 7th May, 1878.)

309. The Governor must bear in mind that arrangements relating to the deposit of Colonial Funds with any Banking Establishment should have for their object the convenience and accommodation of the Public Service only, and are not to be entered into with any particular view of enabling the Banks to increase their accommodations and loans to others, and the Governor will also take care that every proper advantage and allowance by way of interest for deposits that might be profitably employed by the Banks, is duly secured for the use and benefit of the Colonial Treasury and Government.

§ II.—Securities.—Security to be required from Persons appointed to the temporary charge of Offices of pecuniary trust in the Colonies not possessing Representative Assemblies.

