South Australia.

Newfoundland.  
Queensland.  
New Zealand.

The following provinces are subject to the authority of the general Legislature of the Dominion, Colony or Group, to which they belong, but possess a provincial Legislature of their own.

Province.  
Legislature.  
Colony to which Province is subordinate.

1. Ontario  
Single Elected Assembly  
Dominion of Canada.

2. Quebec  
Council and Assembly

3. New Brunswick  
Council and Assembly

4. Nova Scotia  
Council and Assembly

5. British Columbia  
Single Elected Chamber

*6. Prince Edward Island  
Council and Assembly

7. Manitoba  
Council and Assembly

8. North West Territory  
Council

9. Turks Island  
†Nominated Council  
Jamaica.

10. Antigua  
Composite Council

11. Montserrat  
Nominated Council

12. S. Kitts  
Nominated Council

13. Nevis  
Nominated Council

14. Virgin Islands  
Nominated Council

15. Dominica  
Composite Council

† The Constitution of the Council of Jamaica was altered by Order in Council, 19th May, 1884. (See Part II.)

‡ The Constitution of Mauritius was altered by Letters Patent dated 16th September, 1885. (See Part II.)
RULES AND REGULATIONS.

Province. Legislature. Colony to which Province is subordinate.
16. Seychelles Nominated Council Mauritius.
17. Anguilla Composite Council S. Kitts and Leeward Islands

In Colonies or Provinces marked with two asterisks, the Council or Upper Chamber is elective
In the rest it is nominated by the Crown.

CHAPTER II.
THE GOVERNOR.

§ I. The different Classes of Governors, &c., the duration of their Office, &c.

5. The Officer appointed by the Crown to administer the Government of a Colony is usually styled Governor, or Governor and Commander-in-Chief, or Captain-General. The titles of Governor-in-Chief and Governor-General have been at different times given to Governors whose commissions have comprised several distinct Colonies.

6. A Governor-in-Chief administers the Government of every Colony comprised within his Command whenever he is present therein; but the administration of a Colony during his absence is intrusted to an officer appointed by the Crown, with the title of Lieutenant-Governor; or (in some cases) Administrator of the Government, or President of the Council.

The following are Governments in Chief:

1. The Dominion of Canada, which includes the Provinces of Ontario, Quebec, Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Manitoba, N.-W. Territories, British Columbia, Vancouver's Island, and Prince Edward Island.

2. Jamaica, to which are attached,

Honduras.*

3. The Windward Islands, composed of, †

Barbados. Grenada. St. Vincent. Turks Islands.

4. The Leeward Islands, composed of,

Antigua. Dominica. St. Christopher's. Nevis. Tobago. St. Lucia. Virgin Islands. Montserrat.

5. The West Africa Settlements, composed of, †

Sierra Leone. Gambia. Gold Coast. Lagos.

7. Of these Officers, Governors are appointed under the Sign Manual and Signet. Every such person is appointed during Her Majesty's pleasure, but his tenure of office is as a rule confined to a period of six years from the assumption of his duties. If, through death, absence, or otherwise, he should become incapable of acting, the Government devolves on such Officer or person as may have been designated for that purpose in the Charter of Government or in the Letters Patent constituting the office of Governor.

8. By the Act 26 & 27 Vict. c. 76, it is enacted, that Letters Patent shall not take effect in any Colony until published there, and that appointments by Letters Patent shall become void unless so published within a specified period.

9. By the Act 1 Will. IV. c. 4, it is enacted, that all Patents, Commissions, or other Authorities for the exercise of offices in the Colonies held during pleasure, shall continue in force until the expiration of eighteen months from the demise of the Crown.

§ II. Authority of the Governor in relation to Her Majesty's Troops.

10. The Governor of a Colony, though bearing the title of Captain-General or Commander-in-Chief is not, without special appointment from Her Majesty, invested with the Command of Her Majesty's Regular Forces in the Colony. He is not therefore entitled to receive the Allowances annexed to that Command, or to take the immediate direction of any Military Operations, or except in case of urgent necessity, to communicate officially with subordinate Military Officers, without the concurrence of the Officer in Command of the Forces. Any such exceptional communication must be immediately notified to that Officer.

11. Except in the case of invasion or assault by a Foreign Enemy, it is the duty of the Governor to determine the objects with which and the extent to which Her Majesty's Troops are to be employed. He will therefore issue to the Officer in Command of the Forces directions respecting their distribution and their employment on Escort and other duties required for the safety and welfare of the Colony. In all these matters, however, the Governor will consult as far as possible with the Officer in Command, and will incur special responsibility, if he shall direct the Troops to be stationed or employed in a manner which that Officer shall consider open to Military objection.

12. The Governor, as the Queen's Representative, will give the "word" in all places within his Government.

13. On the other hand, the Officer in Command of the Forces will determine all Military details respecting the Distribution and Movement of the Troops and the composition of the different detachments, taking care that they are in conformity with the general directions issued to him by the Governor.

14. The Officer in Command of Her Majesty's Land Forces is alone charged with the superintendence of all details connected with the Military Department in a Colony, the Regimental duty and discipline of the Troops, inspections, and summoning and holding courts-martial, garrison or regimental, and the granting leave of absence to subordinate Military Officers.

15. He carries into execution, on his own authority, the Sentences of Courts-martial, excepting Sentences of Death, which must first be approved, on behalf of the Queen, by the Officer administering the Civil Government.

* By Letters Patent dated the 2nd of October, 1884, British Honduras was constituted a separate colony, with a Governor and Commander-in-Chief.

† By Her Majesty's Charter of the 24th of July, 1874, the Gold Coast and Lagos were separated from the West Africa Settlements, and formed a separate Colony, under the style of the Gold Coast Colony. By Charter dated 14th Jan., 1881, Lagos has been constituted a separate Government.—Ed. C.O. List.

‡ By Her Majesty's Charter of 17th March, 1885, Barbados was constituted a separate Government.
16. He makes the Officer administering the Civil Government Returns of the state and condition of the Troops of the Military departments, of the Stores, Magazines and Fortifications within the Colony and furnishes duplicates of all such Returns of this nature as he may be required or may see occasion to send to the Military Authorities at home, or to any Officer under whose general Command he is placed.

17. On the receipt of the annual Mutiny Act, the Officer in Command of Her Majesty's Land Forces communicates to the Civil Authority the "General Orders" in which it may be promulgated.

18. And in the event of the Colony being invaded or assailed by a Foreign Enemy, and becoming the scene of active Military Operations, the Officer in Command of Her Majesty's Land Forces assumes the entire Military Authority over the Troops.

19. The above Regulations will hold good, though the Governor may be a Military Officer senior in rank to the Officer in Command of the Forces.

20. If several Colonies are comprised in one Military Command, the Officer in Command of the whole may transfer Troops from one Colony to another on an application from the Governor of the Colony to which the Troops are sent, transmitted to him either through the Governor of the Colony in which he is serving, or through the Officer commanding the Forces in the Colony for which Troops are required. But the Officer in command must in all cases consult with the Governor of the Colony from which the Troops are sent, and will incur a special responsibility if he sends them away without that Governor's consent.

21. Except in the case of the North American Colonies, Colonies comprised under one Government in Chief are to be treated, for Military purposes, as a single Colony. Natal, for the same purpose, will be considered part of the Government of the Cape of Good Hope.

§ III. General Powers of an Officer appointed to conduct a Colonial Government.

22. The powers of every Officer, administering a Colonial Government, are conferred, and his duties for the most part defined in Her Majesty's Commission and the Instructions with which he is furnished. The following is a general outline of the nature of the powers with which he is invested, subject to the special law of each Colony:

23. He is empowered to grant a pardon or respite to any criminal convicted in the Colonial Courts of justice.

24. He may pardon persons imprisoned in Colonial Gaols under sentence of a Court-martial; but this is not to be done without consulting the Officer in command of the Forces.

25. He has in general the power of remitting any fines, penalties, or forfeitures, which may accrue to the Queen, but if the fine exceeds 50l., he is in some Colonies only at liberty to suspend the payment of it until Her Majesty's pleasure can be known.

26. The Moneys to be expended for the Public Service are issued under his Warrant, as the law may in each particular case direct.

27. The Governor of a Colony has usually the power of granting licenses for marriages, letters of administration, and probate of wills, unless other provision be made by Charter of Justice or local law. He has also, in many cases, the presentation to benefices of the Church of England in the Colony, subject to rules hereinafter laid down. (See Ch. 4, sec. 1, par. 81.)

28. He has the power, in the Queen's name, of issuing writs for the election of Representative Assemblies and Councils, of convoking and proroguing Legislative Bodies, and of dissolving those which are liable to dissolution.

29. He confers appointments to Offices within the Colony, either absolute, where warranted by local laws, or temporary and provisional, until a reference has been made to Her Majesty's Government.

30. In Colonies possessing responsible Government, he has, with his Council, the entire power of suspending or dismissing public servants who hold during pleasure. In other Colonies he has the power of suspending them from the exercise of their functions under certain regulations, which must be strictly observed, and a limited power of dismissal.

31. He is empowered to administer the appointed oaths to all persons, in Office or not, whenever he may think fit, and particularly the oath of Allegiance provided by 21 and 22 Vict. c. 48, s. 1.

32. He has the power of granting or withholding his assent to any Bills which may be passed by the Legislative bodies.

33. But he is required, in various cases, by his Instructions, to reserve such Bills for the Royal Assent, or to assent to them only with a clause suspending their operation until they are confirmed by the Crown. These cases are not defined alike in all Instructions; but they comprise, generally speaking, matters touching the Currency, the Army and Navy, Differential Duties, the effect of Foreign Treaties, and any enactments of an unusual nature touching the Prerogative or the rights of Her Majesty's Subjects not resident in the Colony.

34. If anything should happen which may be for the advantage or security of the Colony, and is not provided for in the Governor's Commission and Instructions, he may take order for the present therein.

35. He is not to declare or make war against any foreign State, or against the subjects of any foreign State. Aggression he must at all times repel to the best of his ability; and he is to use his best endeavours for the suppression of piracy.

36. His attention is at all times to be directed to the state of discipline and equipment of Militia and Volunteers in the Colony, and when either Force may be embodied, he should send home monthly Returns, with a particular account of their arms and accoutrements.

37. Periodical Reports on this subject, which may not call for immediate attention, may be included in the annual "Blue Book" hereinafter noticed.

38. He is on no account to absent himself from the Colony without Her Majesty's permission.

39. He is prohibited from receiving Presents, pecuniary or valuable, from the Inhabitants of the Colony, or any class of them, during the Continuance of his office, and from giving such Presents; and this Rule is to be equally observed on leaving his office.

40. In cases where money has been subscribed, with a view of marking public approbation of the Governor's conduct, it may be dedicated to objects of general utility and connected with the name of the person who has merited such a proof of the general esteem.

41. Governors are not, without special permission, to forward any articles for presentation to Her Majesty.
RULES AND REGULATIONS.

CHAPTER III.

§ I. Legislative Councils and Assemblies

42. Legislative Councils nominated by the Crown consist, generally speaking, in part of the principal Executive Officers of the Colony, and in part of private persons appointed by name; the former being usually termed Official, and the latter, Unofficial Members. The proportions are prescribed by the respective charters or Commissions or Instructions to Governors.

43. The precedence of the Members of Council between themselves is regulated by the Royal Instructions. In some cases, that precedence depends on seniority of appointment alone, but in other cases that rule is qualified by assigning to the Official Members of Council precedence over the Unofficial Members.

44. When a vacancy occurs by the demise, resignation, &c., of a Legislative Councillor appointed by name, the Governor may in general appoint provisionally to such vacancy until Her Majesty's Pleasure may be known.

45. The general rule is, that no Member of Council may, on pain of vacating his seat, absent himself for more than six months except by leave of the Governor, whose power is limited to granting a leave of absence in some cases of twelve, and in others of eighteen months. Any more protracted leave of absence must be granted by the Crown.

46. In the Colonies not having Representative Assemblies, the initiation of all laws belongs in general to the Governor.

47. In Colonies having such Assemblies it is in many cases provided by Local or Statute law that the initiation of all measures for the appropriation of public money shall belong to the Governor.

48. In every Colony the Governor has authority either to give or to withhold his assent to laws passed by the other branches or members of the Legislature, and until that assent is given no such law is valid or binding.

49. Laws are in some cases passed with suspending clauses; that is, although assented to by the Governor they do not come into operation or take effect in the Colony until they shall have been specially confirmed by Her Majesty, and in other cases Parliament has for the same purpose empowered the Governor to reserve Laws for the Crown's assent, instead of himself assenting or refusing his assent to them.

50. Every Law which has received the Governor's assent (unless it contains a suspending clause) comes into operation immediately or at the time specified in the Law itself. But the Crown retains power to disallow the Law; and if such power be exercised at any time afterwards, the Law ceases to have operation from the date at which such disallowance is published in the Colony.

51. In Colonies having Representative Assemblies the disallowance of any Law, or the Crown's assent to a reserved Bill, is signified by Order in Council. The confirmation of an Act passed with a suspending clause, is not signified by Order in Council unless this mode of confirmation is required by the terms of the suspending clause itself, or by some special provision in the constitution of the colony.

52. In Crown Colonies the allowance or disallowance of any Law is generally signified by despatch.

53. In some cases a period is limited, after the expiration of which Local Enactments, though not actually disallowed, cease to have the authority of law in the Colony, unless before the lapse of that time Her Majesty's confirmation of them shall have been signified there; but the general rule is otherwise.

54. In Colonies possessing Representative Assemblies, Laws purport to be made by the Queen or by the Governor on Her Majesty's behalf or sometimes by the Governor alone, omitting any express reference to Her Majesty, with the advice and consent of the Council and Assembly. They are almost invariably designated as Acts. In Colonies not having such Assemblies, Laws are designated as Ordinances, and purport to be made by the Governor with the advice and consent of the Legislative Council (or in British Guiana of the Court of Policy).

55. In West Indian Islands or African Settlements which form part of any general Government, every Bill or Draft Ordinance must be submitted to the Governor-in-Chief before it receives the assent of the Lieutenant-Governor or Administrator. If the Governor-in-Chief shall consider any amendment indispensable, he may either require that amendment to be made before the law is brought into operation, or he may authorize the Officer administering to assent to the Bill or Draft on the express engagement of the Legislature to give effect to the Governor-in-Chief's recommendation by a supplementary Enactment.

§ II. The Executive Council.

56. The Executive Council (whether separate or not from the Legislative) has the general duty of assisting the Governor by its advice. In some cases, by local Enactment, he can only act with this advice; but, generally speaking, he is not absolutely precluded from acting without it if the public interest requires him to do so. But in this case he must conform to certain special Rules laid down in his Instructions; which likewise prescribe the course to be taken by Councillors in recording their opinion in opposition to the Governor's.

57. In Colonies possessing what is called Responsible Government the Governor is empowered by his Instructions to appoint and remove Members of the Executive Council, it being understood that Councillors who have lost the confidence of the local Legislature will tender their resignation to the Governor or discontinue the practical exercise of their functions in analogy with the usage prevailing in the United Kingdom.

58. In other Colonies the Executive Council when separate from the Legislative Council commonly consists of certain principal officers of the Local Government with or without an admixture of Unofficial Members.

59. These Councillors are appointed by the Governor's Instructions or by Warrant from the Crown, the Governor having in some cases the power of making provisional appointments, subject to the Crown's confirmation.

60. They may be dismissed by the Crown alone, but may be suspended by the Governor, following, as far as the nature of the case will allow, his General Instructions as to the suspension of Public Officers.
61. In the West India Colonies, possessing Representative Assemblies, the Councils in some cases possess, concurrently with the Governor, a judicial authority as a Court of Error, and in some cases they also audit the public accounts.

62. To the Executive Council, associated with the Chief Judge of the Colony, is also in general entrusted the duty of administering to the Governor, on his arrival, the usual oaths of office; which being done, the Governor administers to the Members of the Executive Council, and others, the oaths of office to be taken by them respectively. Each new Member of Council, on his appointment, is also required to take the oaths applying to his particular case.

CHAPTER IV.

§ I. Appointments to Public Offices.

63. The regulations comprised in this Chapter are not intended to apply to Colonies under responsible Government, in which appointments to Public Offices are made by the Governor with advice of his Executive Council, and are not authorized or confirmed by any Commission or Warrant from the Queen.

64. In other Colonies Public Offices are generally granted in the name of Her Majesty, and holden during Her Majesty's Pleasure. In some cases, however, it is specially provided by law that they shall be granted by the Governor or by the Governor in Council or by some judicial authority, and in some few cases they are holden during good behaviour.

65. The general rule is, that all Public Offices of considerable rank, trust, and emolument, should be granted by an Instrument under the Public Seal of the Colony in Her Majesty's name. The appointment may be made either provisionally, when the Instrument is issued under authority of Her Majesty's General Instructions and subject to the Royal approval, or absolutely, when the Instrument is issued in pursuance of Her Majesty's Special Instructions, which Special Instructions are conveyed to the Governor generally in the form of Warrants under the Royal Sign Manual and Signet.

66. The distinction between Offices which are, and Offices which are not, of considerable rank, trust and emolument, being in itself vague and indefinite, has been rendered as precise as the nature of the case admits, by the following distinction. Offices are classed under three heads:-1, those of which the emoluments do not exceed one hundred pounds per annum; 2, those of which the emoluments exceed one hundred and do not exceed two hundred pounds per annum; 3, and those of which the emoluments exceed two hundred pounds per annum.

67. When a vacancy occurs in the first or lowest of the three classes last mentioned, the Governor, as a general rule, has the absolute disposal of the appointment, subject only to the condition of reporting every such appointment by the first opportunity.

68. When a vacancy occurs in the second or middle class, the Governor reports it to the Secretary of State, together with the name and qualifications of the person whom he has appointed to fill it provisionally and intends to fill it finally, which recommendation is almost uniformly followed.

69. When a vacancy occurs in the third or highest class, the Governor follows the same course as to reporting the vacancy and provisional appointment; but he is distinctly to apprise the object of his choice that he holds the Office in the strictest sense of the word provisionally only until his appointment is confirmed or superseded by Her Majesty. He is at liberty also to recommend a candidate for the final appointment, but it must be distinctly understood that the Secretary of State has the power of recommending another instead. In these cases the confirmation or other final appointment takes place in the form already mentioned, of a warrant under the Royal Sign Manual and Signet.*

70. It is of course impossible to lay down any general rule for deciding in what cases the recommendation of a Governor will, or will not, be ultimately sanctioned and confirmed by the Queen; but in general it may be stated, that Her Majesty will be advised to regard more favourably appointments which are in the nature of promotions of meritorious Public Servants, than appointments made in favour of persons new to the Public Service; and that when any new Office has been created the Governor's recommendation for filling it up will carry with it less weight than in the case of offices which the Governor may have found already established. In the cases of such new Offices there will always be more than usual reason to anticipate that an appointment will be made directly from this country.

71. Appointments of gentlemen connected with the Governor, or who have accompanied him to the Colony as Private Secretaries or otherwise, are open to much objection, and will rarely be confirmed. Provisional appointments of this kind should be reported to the Secretary of State without any recommendation as to the mode in which the Office shall be permanently filled. Should such an appointment be made at a time when a Governor is about leave the Colony, his Successor will be expected to report on the mode in which the Office should be permanently filled.

72. It is further to be understood, that, in determining the propriety of appointments from this Country or from the Colony, regard will probably be had to the comparatively advanced state of wealth and population in each Colony, and to the number of properly qualified Candidates among whom the Local Authorities may have the opportunity of making a selection.

73. In the distribution of the patronage of the Government in the Colonies, great weight must always be attached to local services and experience. Every Governor will therefore make, once in each year, a Confidential Report of the claims of Candidates, whether already employed in the Public Service or not, whom he may consider to possess those qualifications, in order that, when a vacancy or an opportunity for promotion occurs, the Secretary of State may have before him additional means, besides the immediate recommendation of the Governor, for judging how far the particular Candidate recommended by the Governor is on the whole the best qualified, and whether a Candidate of proper qualifications is to be found in that or in any other Colony. The Governor will ascertain and report upon the qualifications of other Candidates, of whom he may have less knowledge, when he sees sufficient reason for supposing that the Public Service might gain by their admission into it; but in the application of these Rules much must be left to the Governor's discretion.

* This provision is practically obsolete. See Circular Despatch, September 30, 1869.
74. In reporting a vacancy in any Office under the Crown, of which the emoluments exceed 200l. per annum, or in reporting the creation of any such office, the Governor will furnish in the form of the Schedule inserted in the Appendix (p. 286), and in duplicate, full particulars respecting the nature and incidents of the office, and will state in the covering despatch whether persons filling that or similar offices have been usually selected by the Secretary of State or by the Governor.

75. In the case of the Chief Judicial and Chief Fiscal Offices in a Colony in which the Crown is responsible for the appointments, local connexion with the Colony by birth, family ties, or otherwise, will be considered, generally speaking, to render a candidate ineligible.

76. All salaried Public Officers are prohibited from engaging in trade or connecting themselves with any commercial undertaking without leave from the Governor approved by the Secretary of State. As a general rule this prohibition will be made absolute in the case of officers whose remuneration is fixed on the assumption that their whole time is at the disposal of the Government.

77. No Public Officer is to undertake any private agency in any matter connected with the exercise of his public duties.

78. Whenever half-pay Officers borne on the half-pay of Her Majesty's Army or Navy, or in the Military and Commissariat Departments, shall be appointed to a civil situation in any of the Colonies, a report of the appointment, specifying the date and the amount of salary, is to be made immediately to the Secretary of State for the Colonies, which will be transmitted by him to the proper authorities in this Country. Promotions in the Civil Service of half-pay Officers are also to be notified forthwith to the Secretary of State for the Colonies, for the information of the respective authorities.

79. No paid officer under the Government of a Colony can be permitted to be the Editor of a newspaper, or to take any active part in the management of it. He may furnish articles signed with his name upon objects of general interest, abstaining from writing on questions which can properly be called political, or discussing the measures of the Government, or the official proceedings of its Officers, and from furnishing any articles whatever to a newspaper which, in commenting on the measures of the Government, should habitually exceed the bounds of fair and temperate discussion. If the authorship of anonymous articles should be brought home to any Officer, or if, in articles bearing his signature, he should discuss any political subject, or the measures of the Government, or the official proceedings of its Officers, he will be liable to be removed from Office.

80. No Public Officer is allowed to receive a Grant of money by a Colonial Legislature, if such Grant has not been initiated or authorised by the Governor.

§ II. Suspension and Dismissal from Office.

81. Holders of patent offices may be removed from such offices by the Governor and Council under the second section of the Act 22 Geo. 3., c. 75 (amended by 54 Geo. 3., c. 61); but care must be taken that the officer is heard after being apprised of the charge against him, and it will be convenient that the course prescribed in case of suspension should be pursued in any proceedings for removal.

82. Against any such removal an appeal lies to Her Majesty in Council, which should be prosecuted like any other appeal.

83. The following Rules, unless the mode of suspension is otherwise provided for by some local law, must be strictly observed in proceeding to suspend from the exercise of his office any public officer who has been appointed by virtue of a commission or warrant from the Crown, or whose emoluments exceed 100l. a year.

84. The Governor shall signify to the officer, by a statement in writing, the grounds of the intended suspension, and shall call upon him to state in writing before a day to be specified (which day must allow a reasonable interval for the purpose) any grounds upon which he relies to exculpate himself.

85. If the officer does not furnish such statement within the time fixed by the Governor, or if he fails to exculpate himself to the satisfaction of the Governor, the Governor shall apprise the officer that on a day (to be specified), the question of his suspension will be brought before the Executive Council (or, in British Guiana, before the official members of the Court of Policy), and that he will be allowed, and, if the Council so determine, required to appear before the Council and defend himself orally.

86. If any witnesses are examined by the Council, the officer must be allowed the opportunity of being present, and of putting questions on his own behalf. The officer must also be given a copy of any documentary evidence that is to be used against him, and that has not been already furnished to him.

87. If in the course of the inquiry further grounds of suspension are disclosed, the Governor, if he thinks fit to proceed upon such grounds, shall furnish the officer with a written statement thereof, and shall take the same steps as are above prescribed in respect of the original grounds of suspension.

88. If in any case the Governor considers that the interests of the public service require that an officer should cease to exercise the powers and functions of his office (as, for instance, in the custody of public money) instantly, or before the proceedings above prescribed can be completed, he may at once interdict the officer from the exercise of the powers and functions of his office. The Governor shall in all cases allow the interdicted officer to receive half the salary of his office, until proceedings for his suspension have been taken, and may in special cases allow a larger amount not exceeding the full salary; but no such officer can be formally suspended from his office or deprived of his whole salary, except upon formal proceedings as are above prescribed, which must in all cases be taken with as little delay as possible.

89. If upon the inquiry the Executive Council are of opinion that the officer deserves punishment, but not the full penalty of suspension, the Governor may remove the officer to an office of lower rank in the service, or may require him to serve in his original office at a reduced salary, either permanently or for a stated period, or may deduct a portion of salary due or about to become due to the officer.

90. If the officer is suspended or otherwise punished as above mentioned, the Governor shall, without loss of time, report the matter to the Secretary of State for approval and confirmation, transmitting the minutes of Council, the written statements, and all material documents relating to the case.
If the officer is suspended, the Governor shall at the same time transmit the usual return required in the case of a vacancy. (A form will be found in the Appendix p. 337.)

91. If the officer is suspended, the Secretary of State, instead of confirming the suspension, may direct the Governor to subject the officer to one of the lesser punishments above mentioned; or if, in lieu of suspension, the officer has been so punished by the Governor, the Secretary of State may direct the Governor to reduce or to increase the punishment already awarded.

92. If the suspension of an officer is not approved and confirmed by the Secretary of State, and no other punishment is awarded, the officer will be entitled to the full amount of salary which he would have received if he had not been suspended, even though the officer discharging the functions of the office in the meanwhile has been allowed to receive some portion of the salary of the office.

93. If the suspension is approved and confirmed by the Secretary of State, all salary will cease from the day of suspension; and although the officer should be subsequently restored (as an act of indulgence), he will not be entitled to any portion of salary during the period of his suspension. Pending the decision of the Secretary of State the Governor, with the advice of the Executive Council, may grant a small alimentary allowance to an officer who has been suspended, and who appears urgently to need such assistance.

94. An officer whose suspension is approved and confirmed by the Secretary of State forfeits all claim to a retiring allowance, even though he should have paid contributions towards such allowance.

95. If criminal proceedings are instituted against a public officer, proceedings for his suspension upon any grounds involved in the criminal charge shall not be taken pending the criminal proceedings.

96. If an officer is convicted on a criminal charge the Governor may cause the proceedings of the Criminal Court on such charge to be laid before the Executive Council, and if the Council are of opinion that the officer should be suspended on account of the offence for which he has been convicted, he may thereupon be suspended without taking any of the proceedings above prescribed, but his suspension must be reported to the Secretary of State for approval and confirmation.

96. (a) An officer acquitted on a criminal charge is not thereby rendered exempt from suspension on account of his conduct in the matter; and the Governor, if he thinks fit, may take the usual proceedings for the purpose.

96. (b) An officer who is under suspension may not leave the Colony, during the interval before he is reinstated or dismissed, without the leave of the Governor. If granted leave of absence the officer will not be entitled to any more salary than if he had remained in the Colony.

96. (c) Any officer, whether under suspension or not, who absents himself from the Colony without leave, will be held to have thereby vacated his office.

96. (d) An officer who has not been appointed by virtue of a commission or warrant from the Crown, and whose emoluments do not exceed 100l. a year, may be dismissed by the Governor without the proceedings above prescribed; but in every such case the grounds of dismissal must be definitely stated in writing, and communicated to the officer that he may have full opportunity of excusing himself, and the matter must be investigated by the Governor with the aid of the head of the department (if any). Such dismissals will not require the confirmation of the Secretary of State, but any memorial from the dismissed officer must be forwarded to the Secretary of State without delay, with a short statement of the grounds of dismissal.

§ III. Pensions and Retiring Allowances.

97. In the absence of any local law, each application for a pension or retiring allowance as it presents itself must be specially considered and treated on its own merits. Except in the case of Officers appointed prior to 5th August, 1829, the amount of pension to be granted, if any, will be generally regulated by the principles of the British Superannuation Acts, 4 & 5 W. 4, c. 24, and 22 Vict. c. 26. But it must be clearly understood that the maximum rate of pension is not always awarded, and that when public employment is combined with the practice of a private profession, no pension will be granted, unless the retiring Officer had acquired a claim to Superannuation before the passing of the Act 22 Vict. c. 26, or had had his right to a pension otherwise and specially preserved. The cases of Officers having had private practice, whose services commenced after the passing of the Act 22 Vict. c. 26, and whose appointments may be abolished, will be specially considered.

98. Whenever a Governor may have occasion to bring under the consideration of Her Majesty's Government the application of any Officer for a retiring allowance on quitting the public service, he is required to furnish certain particulars in each case, according to the form inserted in the Appendix (p. 337). (An extract of the Treasury Minute, and of a Report of Superannuation Committee, respecting the grant of retiring allowances to those who entered the service prior to 5th August, 1829, to those who entered it after that date, to professional Officers, and in regard to pensions granted on abolition of office, are printed at pp. 225-26 of the edition for 1881).

99. In case of Public Officers receiving salaries not exceeding 120l. per annum, the Governor, subject to revision by the Home Government, may decide on the amount of retiring allowance to be granted, in accordance with the general rules relating to pensions.

100. Pensions to Colonial Officers retiring on the ground of ill-health are subject as a general rule to this condition, that should the Officer's health be re-established, he is bound to accept, in lieu of his pension, any office, not inferior in value to that from which he retired, which the Secretary of State may think proper to confer on him, due regard being had to circumstances of climate.

101. Previously to making any payment in a Colony in respect of a pension, the Treasurer, or other proper Officer, will take care to inform himself whether any condition may have been attached to it, with reference to the employment, residence, or otherwise, of the claimant. If such condition shall exist, the Treasurer will have to produce as a voucher, in support of his account, a sufficient certificate or other proof that it has been complied with, and must withhold the payment of the pension until such document shall be furnished.

102. If an officer shall in any case retire on a pension, during a leave of absence, not obtained with a view to retirement, or within six months after resumption of duty, the term of service on which his pension is calculated will be subject to such deduction, not exceeding the duration of his last leave, as the Secretary of State may think fit.
103. If in any Colony the law of the Colony shall vest in the retiring Officer, an unconditional right to the pension claimed, or is otherwise inconsistent with these rules, the case must of course be governed by the law and not by the rule. (See circular of 22nd May, 1873, as to mode of dealing for pension the purposes with the house allowances and fees of public officers, in Part IV of the edition for 1881.)

CHAPTER V.

§ I. Salaries.

104. On appointments to Offices, half salary, when so disposable by law, will be allowed, as a general rule, from the date of embarkation and full salary from the date of arrival in the Colony: Provided that the Officer proceeds direct to the Colony to which he is appointed, otherwise he will be allowed to draw half salary for such time only as ordinarily elapses between the departure of the mail (if any) from the point of embarkation and its arrival in the Colony; or if there be no mail route between his point of embarkation and his point of arrival in the Colony, for such time as is ordinarily required to perform the journey between such two points.

105. If, however, the Office is a new one, or if for any other reason there is no person drawing salary in respect of it, full salary may in special cases be allowed from the date of embarkation. It, on the other hand, the Officer previously holding the appointment in the Colony continues in the tenure of his Office until the arrival of his Successor, the latter Officer will not be entitled to any portion of salary until he has assumed the duties of his Office.

106. No advance of salary is allowed, except in very special cases, to be determined by the Secretary of State; and the Officer to whom it may be granted must sign an agreement with the Crown Agents in the form inserted in the Appendix.* (Page 339.)

107. If any Office be vacant, in any Colony, by the death or removal of the holder, or by his temporary absence, the person appointed by the Governor to act in his stead will receive half the salary of the Office. Should such person be the holder of another situation, but not performing the duties of it, he may receive half the salary of the Office in which he is so appointed to act, together with half the salary of his own Office.

108. Should the person so appointed by the Governor to a vacant Office be required at the same time to perform the duties of his own Office, he may be allowed half the salary of the temporary Office, together with the whole salary of his own Office; but as a general rule no person should be appointed to discharge at the same time the duties of two distinct Offices, whenever any other arrangement may be practicable.

109. The fees of the vacant Office (in the absence of any usage or law to the contrary) should be paid into the Colonial Treasury, from whence the acting Officer will receive one moiety, with such further portion as the Governor shall consider advisable, in case the services performed are of a special character or involve outlay.

110. Should the Officer whom the Governor has appointed temporarily to a vacant Office be confirmed in the situation, he will be entitled to draw the full salary of that Office from the date at which he entered on the duties, if no portion of the salary during that period has been drawn by the former occupant of the Office; but from the date from which he draws such full salary, he will not be entitled to salary on account of any other Office which he may have held at the same time.

111. If any Colonial Officer desires part of his salary to be paid by the Crown Agents in this country, he must give his assent in writing to the following condition, viz., that the proposed part payment shall in no case be made until the Crown Agents have been furnished with a certificate from the proper Colonial authority to the effect that the Officer continued to hold his appointment during the period for which such part payment is claimed.†

112. The Colonial Government, on timely application from the Officer, is to transmit such a certificate to the Crown Agents, furnishing the Officer with a duplicate.†

113. The following Rules are to be observed in regard to the salary to be drawn by Officers appointed to the provisional administration of Governments, or transferred from one Government to another:

Whenever the Government of a Colony may be vacated by the death, recall, or resignation of the holder of it, or when the Governor may be absent on leave, the person succeeding to the administration of the Government shall (if previously resident in the Colony) receive half of the salary of the Governor; and the full "Table Allowance," in cases where any such allowance is made.

Should any Officer in the Civil Service of a Colony be called to administer the Government of a Colony in either of the aforesaid cases, he will (if no other arrangement has been made and sanctioned on his assumption of the Government) be entitled to receive only the Governor's half salary, and no part of his own salary, unless the Governor's half salary should be less than double his own whole salary, in which case he will receive half of each.

Should the person called to the administration have been removed from the Public Service in another Colony for the purpose, he shall receive, during a vacancy of the Government to which he shall so have been called, and until the embarkation of his Successor, the whole salary of the Governor; and "Table Allowance," as above stated.

But during the period in which he may continue to administer such Government, on whole salary, he will not be entitled to any portion of the salary of the Office from which he may have been removed; and from the period at which the newly-appointed Governor shall become entitled to half salary, the Officer provisionally administering shall receive only the other half; and "Table Allowance," as above stated. Whether he can in this case draw also half the salary of his own Office will depend on the arrangements made for payment of his substitute, and will be decided in each instance by the Secretary of State.

* Crown Agents, by letter of September 9, 1871 (communicated to Governors in a Circular of September 13) were directed to consider it as a standing instruction that advances of salary should only be made on execution of written guarantee, from a responsible third person, for repayment of money in case of default.

† As to the mode of making such remittances through the Crown Agents, and the Forms to be used, see Circular Despatch of 21st April, 1877, and 7th April, 1890.
then be entitled to half salary), and should an Officer administering some other Government be called to the provisional administration of the Government temporarily vacant, such officer will be entitled to draw the half salary of the Government from which he may have so temporarily removed, together with the half salary of the Government which he may have been called provisionally to administer; and "Table Allowance," as above stated.

If the period of a vacancy, or of the absence of a Governor, should exceed nine months and there should be any salary left for the purpose, the Secretary of State will be willing to make such arrangements as may appear reasonable for the increase of the salary of the temporary holder for the period of excess.

Officers in the provisional administration of Colonial Governments must, however, in all cases in which bills are drawn on the Paymaster-General, draw for the half salaries only of such Governments until they shall receive Notifications from the Colonial Office of the periods during which they may be entitled to full salary.

113A. Officers succeeding to the administration, or the provisional administration, of Colonial Governments, will be entitled to draw full or half salary, as the case may be, in respect of the day on which they assume their duties. The Officers whom they succeed will not be entitled to any payment for that day, excepting the half salary granted in cases of absence on leave.

114. If a Governor is transferred from one Colony to another, and comes to England first, he will usually receive the half salary of the Government which he relinquishes if it should be available, and not drawn by any other Officer, until the date of his embarkation from England for the Government to which he may be appointed.

115. If no portion of the salary of the Government from which such Governor is transferred is so available, but the half salary of the Government to which he may be appointed is available, he will usually receive the half salary of the latter.

116. If no half salary is available from either, he can receive no salary until he assumes his new Government.

117. When a Governor who has been transferred from one Government to another returns to this country, before proceeding to his new Government, the Secretary of State must be satisfied that such return is unavoidable, or in furtherance of the public interests, before the Officer is allowed to receive any half salary. (See also circular of 8th January, 1873, as to the division of salary on the occasion of a change in the office of Governor.)

§ II. Leave of absence.

118. The Acts of Parliament, 22 Geo. 3, cap. 75, and 54 Geo. 3, cap. 61, empower the Governor and Council of any Colony to grant leave of absence to Colonial Officers.

119. Subject to the necessities of the service leave of absence may be granted after a period of six years' resident service in the Colony without any special grounds. It may be given before the expiration of that period in cases of serious indisposition, or of "urgent private affairs," if the Governor and Council are satisfied that the indulgence is indispensible. In cases of serious indisposition, the state of the officer's health must be certified by his medical attendant. In cases of "urgent private affairs," the nature of such urgent affairs must be stated to the Governor.

120. In the absence of special grounds the leave in such case must not exceed one-sixth of the Officer's resident service. On special grounds it may exceed that period by six months, but it must in neither case exceed twelve months.

121. The Governor may report to the Secretary of State the period for which the leave may be extended without injury to the public service, but must not recommend such extension. The Officer seeking an extension must apply at least one clear month before the time when he ought to start in order to reach the Colony before the end of his existing leave.

122. Governors are required by the Act 54 Geo. 3, cap. 61, to report to the Secretary of State for confirmation, each case in which leave of absence has been granted, under a penalty not exceeding in each case £100.; they must also transmit a Certificate in the form inserted in the Appendix (page 339), and a similar Certificate in case the Governor should afterwards recommend an extension of leave. If the Officer is paid by fees, they must also report what arrangements are made respecting the disposal of those fees during the Officer's absence.

123. An Officer to whom leave of absence has been granted, is in general entitled to half salary during his absence from the Colony. Any private arrangement made with the object of securing to the absent Officer more than the authorised allowance is on no account to be allowed. No advance of salary will be granted to the absent Officer in order to enable him to return to the Colony.

124. Stipendiary Magistrates on leave may receive so much of their allowance for house rent as may not be wanted for the Acting Officers, the amount so allowed being reported to the Secretary of State; but they must receive no part of their allowance for horse hire.

125. Governors are to furnish every Officer proceeding on leave of absence with a duplicate of the despatch to the Secretary of State, reporting his leave, and a duplicate of the Certificate above mentioned; and an absent officer cannot receive his half salary in this country, nor any extension of his leave, unless he produces such Certificate.

126. The Regulations respecting the stoppage of half the salaries of Civil officers on obtaining leave of absence are to be applied, as far as practicable, to the case of Ministers of Religion in the Colonies, receiving salary from Colonial or Imperial Funds. Leave in these cases is to be granted by the Governor of the colony on the recommendation of the Bishop or other superintending Authority (if any) of the Body to which the Minister may belong, and subject to the same rules as in the case of Civil Officers in regard to the confirmation and extension.

127. To whatever extent the authority of the Queen, or of Her Majesty's Officers, may be competent to enforce it, the further rule must be observed, that no Minister of Religion must be permitted to absent himself from the Colony in which he serves, until adequate and satisfactory provision shall have been made for the performance of his clerical duties during his absence, unless the state of his health absolutely requires it.

128. The same rules extend to leave of absence granted to Judicial Functionaries of every Class.
129. In cases where salaries are fixed by law, the rule as to half salary can always be applied by the Governor's declining to grant leave unless on condition of conforming to it.

130. On his arrival in this country the officer on leave must report himself, either personally or by letter, to the Colonial Office, producing or transmitting the Governor's despatch, and mentioning the place of his residence, and he must notify any subsequent change of residence. Treasurers and auditors of colonies, whose accounts are subjected to Imperial audit, should also leave their address at the office of the Comptroller and Auditor-General. (Enclosure to circular despatch of the 30th November, 1890.)

131. Leave of absence will be extended by the Secretary of State, but not as a matter of course, nor unless the public convenience admits of it.*

132. Except in very special cases, as of unbroken official residence in the same Colony for fifteen years, no extensions will exceed six months at a time, nor will any officers on leave be allowed to receive half salary at any one time for more than the following periods:

- Heligoland and Mediterranean: 9 months.
- West Indies, Bermuda, Western Australia, British Columbia, Natal, St. Helena, and Falkland Islands: 18 "
- West Coast of Africa, Mauritius, Ceylon, Hong Kong, Straits Settlements, and Labuan: 24 "

Nor for a period which, added to his previous absences on leave with half salary, would exceed by six months one-sixth of his resident service in the Colony. Absence without salary will not be counted against him in calculating his claim for further leave of absence, nor for him, with certain exceptions, in calculating his pension.

133. The foregoing regulations are not designed to prevent, or to regulate, any vacation for the purpose of relaxation from business, not exceeding, in the case of ordinary Civil Officers, three months in any two years. In the case of Judicial or Educational Officers, the vacation leave may extend to, but must not exceed, the ordinary vacations of the court to which they belong, or the institution in which they are employed; and they may, when absent on half-pay leave, receive full pay during any ordinary vacation of such court or institution which may be included in the period of their leave of absence. In Colonies where there is no ordinary vacation of the court or no vacation exceeding one month at one time, Judicial Officers may have the leave allowed to ordinary Civil Officers. Vacation leave need not be reported to the Secretary of State unless the officer intends or is likely to visit England, in which case his departure must be reported as required when leave of absence is granted. There is no abatement of salary during vacation leave; but the leave must be recorded under the Governor's hand, and the officer absenting himself must, with the concurrence or sanction of the Governor, have made such arrangements as may be necessary for the adequate discharge of his duties without cost to the public.

134. In cases where an officer is entitled to claim both vacation leave of six weeks or three months, and also leave on half-pay for a longer period, and comes home by permission of the Governor on vacation leave, he may apply for an additional leave of absence on half-pay, to be taken immediately on the expiration of the vacation leave, subject to the usual rules which regulate such absence, and on condition that before leaving the Colony the Officer has informed the Governor of his intention to apply for such extended leave, and that the Governor has reported to the Secretary of State his approval of such intention, and has furnished the usual certificate of leave of absence: or the Governor may give the officer leave of absence for a period not exceeding that allowed by Regulation 120, with an intimation that he will be entitled to full pay for the period for his vacation leave, and subsequently to half-pay.

135. Officers applying for leave with the intention of retiring must only receive such term of leave as will allow time for coming to a decision in England respecting the application for retirement; and the Governor giving leave under such circumstances must report them to the Secretary of State. The Officer's half-salary will in such case cease and his pension commence when his retirement is sanctioned.

136. If an Officer retires during his leave of absence without having originally given notice of his desire to do so, the period at which his half-salary is to cease must be determined according to the circumstances of the case.

§ III. Passages.

137. The following is the scale of allowances to be granted from Imperial Funds to Governors, including in that term all Officers administering Colonial Governments, for their passages from this country:

| Country                  | Allowance |
|--------------------------|-----------|
| Canada                   | £100      |
| British Columbia         | 600       |
| Other Colonies in North America | 300   |
| Bermuda                  | 350       |
| West Indies: Governors   | 350       |
| " Lieutenant-Governors   | 250       |
| " Administrators         | 200       |
| Malta                    | 300       |
| Gibraltar                | 200       |
| Sierra Leone             | 300       |
| Gambia                   | 250       |
| Gold Coast               | 300       |
| Lagos                    | 300       |
| Cape of Good Hope        | 500       |
| Natal                    | £450      |
| St. Helena               | 500       |
| Mauritius                | 700       |
| Ceylon                   | 700       |
| Labuan                   | 500       |
| Australian Colonies      | 800       |
| New Zealand              | 800       |
| Hong Kong                | 800       |
| Straits Settlements      | 800       |
| Falkland Islands         | 400       |
| Heligoland               | 50        |
| Fiji                     | 800       |
| British Honduras         | 300       |

* In Ceylon, except in cases of unforeseen emergency, extension of leave will be refused when the Governor has notified that it cannot conveniently be granted, and in the case of application for extension on other grounds than that of ill health half salary will not be granted without a reference to the Colony.—Secretary of State's Despatch, 196, 18th Nov., 1867.

Note.—Special advantages as to leave of absence are granted to Officers on the West Coast of Africa. See Chapter XVIII of these Regulations.

† By Circular Despatch of August 1, 1871, Officers administering Governments in West Indies, other than Governors-in-Chief, are allowed leave of absence on full pay, for a period not exceeding three weeks at a time and thirty-one days in a year.

‡ A sum of £500 is granted as passage allowance in all cases of the transfer of a Governor from an Australian Colony to New Zealand, or vice versa.
138. Governors will be granted the same amount of passage allowance on retiring or being removed from their Governments, but they must not draw for the amount without the previous sanction of the Secretary of State; if, however, they come home on leave of absence, or are relieved at their own request before the period at which a successor would, under ordinary circumstances, be appointed, they must provide their own passages. The return allowances of Governors, who may have left this country, before the 1st January, 1870, will be governed by the Regulations which were in force at the time of their leaving.

139. If a Governor is removed from one Government to another, he will not be entitled to passage allowance from the Colony from which he retires to this country, and likewise from hence to the Colony to which he is about to proceed, unless the Secretary of State and the Treasury shall be satisfied that his return to this country was unavoidable, or in furtherance of the public interests; but the allowance to be granted to him will be calculated by the Secretary of State and the Treasury according to the probable expense of the direct passage from one Colony to the other, estimated on the same principle as the passage allowance from England. In the case of a public functionary (not a Governor) or other person resident in a Colony, who may be appointed to the Government of another Colony, the same principle will be followed by the Secretary of State and the Treasury as nearly as circumstances will admit. In the case of a Governor who may return to this country for other reasons than those above stated, he will be entitled to the single passage allowance from England to his new Colony, unless that allowance be greater than the sum which might have been allowed for a direct journey from the old Colony to the new one, in which case the smaller amount only will be allowed.

140. Whenever a Lieutenant-Governor is appointed to a Colony in which a Superior Governor is resident, and exercising all the functions of his Office, he will be entitled to receive a moiety of the Passage Allowance assigned by the Regulations to the Governor under whom he is about to serve.

141. Passage allowances will also be made from Imperial Funds to persons specially commissioned to proceed to any of the Colonies, and to Bishops receiving salaries from Imperial Funds, while on their Visitation Tours. When a Bishop's stipend ceases to be paid from Imperial Funds, his passage allowances will also cease.

142. No passage in Her Majesty's ships is to be given to Colonial Officers at the public expense except on the application of the Senior Officer of the Civil Department on the spot to the Senior Naval Officer present. The expense for the entertainment of passengers will not be paid by the public, unless the Secretary of State for the Colonies should consider that the passage was properly applied for, and that the expense should be so paid. Whenever a Governor has occasion to apply to the Senior Naval Officer for a passage in one of Her Majesty's Ships for himself, or for any Functionary under his Government, he must immediately report the case to the Secretary of State, informing him at the same time of the circumstances under which the application was made.

143. The passage expenses of a Governor-in-Chief visiting his subordinate Governments, will be defrayed from Imperial Funds; but not so his expenses while visiting different ports within his immediate Government.

144. If a Governor is proceeding on a Tour of Inspection or Duty within the limits of his Government, such passages must be limited to himself, his Secretary, and their personal attendants, and not include other Officers, or members of his family.

145. When a Governor is proceeding to another Colony to administer the Government temporarily, or returning to his own Government, he will be allowed, from Imperial Funds, such expenses as the Secretary of State may deem to have been reasonably incurred for the removal of himself and his family.

146. Subject to Article 149, the expense for the entertainment on board of Her Majesty's Ships of a Governor, Bishop, or any other Public Officer so entertained, must be paid to the Paymaster of the Ship at the end of the voyage, and, if possible before leaving the Ship.

147. If such expense is to be charged on the Imperial or Colonial Treasury, it may be defrayed by a Bill drawn in the former case on the Paymaster-General, and in the latter case on the Colonial Government. Such Bills must be drawn at not less than ten days' sight, either by the Governor or with his written sanction. In case the expense is to be borne on Imperial Funds, the Governor will report, by the first opportunity, his having given such sanction, and will direct the Public Officer to whom it may have been given to transmit an immediate and direct advice to the Secretary of State of his having drawn the Bill, and to forward at the same time the Governor's sanction for his having done so, and a Receipt from the Paymaster of the vessel for the amount so drawn.

148. The rates at which passages in Her Majesty's ships will be paid to the Captains or Commanding Officers at whose table passengers may be entertained, are as follows:

I. For any Governor whose salary is not less than 3,000l. per annum, exclusive of allowances—and for Commanders-in-Chief of Forces, if Generals, Lieutenant-Generals, or Major Generals, 4l. per diem for the seven days, and afterwards 2ls. a day.

II. For any other Governor and Lieutenant-Governor, 3l. per diem for the first seven days and afterwards 2ls. a day.

III. For the persons composing the suite of Governors, &c., 2ls. a day for each male person above the age of 16; two-thirds of that sum for every female above 16; one-third for such of either sex as shall be between the ages of 7 and 16; and one-fourth for such as may be under 7 years of age, for every day they shall be entertained at the Captain's table.

IV. For Colonial Bishops, and for individuals other than those above stated, entertained at the Captain's table, 2ls. a day for the first fourteen days, and 15s. a day afterwards; and the proportions with respect to age and sex, as stated in the preceding paragraph.

149. When a Governor or other Public Officer is proceeding in a ship of war on a Tour of Inspection which requires him to disembark at various ports, the higher rate per diem will in general only be paid for the seven days' entertainment following his first embarkation. If there are special reasons for repeating this payment, it must form a subject of special representation to the Secretary of State before it is made.

149A. When a Governor, or other public officer, disembarks for the purpose of performing bona fide public service, and has not been able to give the Captain or Commanding Officer beforehand such information as to the days on which he would be absent from the ship as would prevent expense in
preparing for his entertainment on those days, one-half of the rates of allowance above authorized will be payable in respect of such absence.

149n. For the purpose of computing the seven days referred to in Clause 149, each day in respect of which a charge for entertainment is made at half of the higher rate is to be counted as a full day. (See Circular, 21st June, 1880.)

