310. Officers entrusted with public money should give security in proportion to the average sum which may be passing through their hands at any time. If the Colonial Treasurer, or any other established Officer who has been called upon to give security to the Crown in respect of pecuniary responsibility attaching to his Office, shall obtain leave of absence under circumstances which require the interposition of the authority of the Governor for the appointment of a Substitute, the Governor will call upon the person whom he may select to act in the absence of the principal to give security, in his personal bond, to the Crown, with the bonds of two or more Sureties, to such an amount, with reference to the security of the principal, as may be reasonably required; or to furnish, in lieu of the Bond of Sureties, such other collateral security, upon property or otherwise, as shall be of equal amount and validity with such bonds.

311. In case the Governor should find that the person whom he may propose to appoint to the temporary charge of an Office of pecuniary trust cannot furnish the amount of collateral security required from him, the Governor will consider whether, in order to render so large an amount of collateral security unnecessary, some arrangement can be made for reducing the risk of loss, either by placing the Office in Commission, or by limiting the floating balance under the charge of the Officer to the smallest amount necessary to meet the current expenditure for ordinary contingent services, and by depositing all surplus beyond such reduced average balance in a separate Chest, under the joint charge of two or more Officers holding separate keys.

312. A full report of all the circumstances relating to any such special arrangement must be made to the Secretary of State for the information of the Lords of the Treasury, and in the event of the employment of a Commission the personal bonds of the Officers joined in Commission are to be taken as to their separate acts.

313. As all security required from persons appointed to the temporary charge of Offices vacated in consequence of leave of absence, or from any other cause, is to be independent of, and unconnected with, any security which may have been given by the established Officer, the Governor is particularly cautioned that the bonds or other instrument which may be prepared with a view of giving effect to the security required from the acting Officers should have no reference to the bonds of the established Officer or of his Sureties, and should not contain any clause which might be construed as interfering with or affecting in any manner the original bonds of the principal, either during his absence or on his return to duty. At the same time it is not intended that this precautionary instruction should prevent the Governor from accepting the additional security of the principal who may be about to absent himself on leave, should he be willing to enter into a new bond for his Substitute, or to join in the security to be given by such Substitute.

§ III.—Regulations respecting the Incorporation of Banking Companies in the Colonies.

314. In Charters or legislative Enactments relating to the Incorporation of Banking Companies in the Colonies, provision should be made for the observance of the following regulations and conditions.

315. The Amount of the Capital of the Company and Number of Shares to be determined; and the whole of such determined amount to be subscribed for within a limited period, not exceeding Eighteen Months from the date of the Charter or Act of Incorporation.

316. Shareholders to be declared a Body Corporate, with common seal and perpetual succession, and other usual corporate powers; and with any requisite proviso that judgment against the Corporation shall attach to all additional liability of the Shareholders, as well as to paid-up Capital and other property of the Company.

317. Provision to be made, either by Recital and Confirmation of any Deed of Settlement in these respects or otherwise, for the due Management of the Company's Affairs by Appointment of Directors, and so forth, so far as shall seem necessary for the security of the Public.

318. No bye-law of the Company to be repugnant to the conditions of the Charter or Act of Incorporation, or to the Laws of any Colony in which the Company's Establishments may be placed.

* See Circular of 6th February, 1873 naming guarantee offices whose bonds may be accepted, and also Circular of 25th March, 1884.
319. The Corporate Body thus constituted may be specially empowered, subject to the conditions hereafter mentioned, to carry on for a limited term of years (not to exceed Twenty-one Years unless under particular circumstances), and within the Colony or Colonies specified in the Charter or Act of Incorporation, but not elsewhere, the Business of Banker; and for the like term to issue and circulate within the said Colony or Colonies, but in such manner only as shall not be at variance with any general Law of the Colony, Promissory Notes payable in Specie on Demand.

320. Such Banking Business or Issue of Notes not to commence or take place until the whole of the Fixed Capital of the Company has been subscribed for, and a moiety at least of the Subscription paid up. The remaining moiety of the Capital to be paid up within a given period from the date of the Charter or Act of Incorporation, such period not in general to exceed two years.

321. In all cases in which Shares in the Company's Stock are transferred between the period of the Grant of the Charter or Act of Incorporation and the actual commencing of business by the Bank, the responsibility of the original holder of the transferred Shares to continue for Six Months at least after the date of the transfer.

322. The Company not to advance Money on Security of Lands, or Houses, or Ships, or on pledge of Merchandise, nor to hold Land or Houses except for the transaction of its business, nor own Ships, or be engaged in Trade, except as Dealers in Bullion or Bills of Exchange; but to confine its transactions to discounting Commercial Paper and negotiable Securities, and other legitimate Banking Business: the Company may, however, accept Lands, or Houses, or Ships, or Shares in its Capital or Stock, or other Real or Personal Property in liquidation of, or as a Security for any Debt bona fide previously due to the Company, or as a security for payment of any Sum for which any person may have rendered himself liable to the Company, and hold them for such reasonable time as may be necessary to dispose of and convert the same into Money.

323. The Company not to hold Shares in its own Stock, nor to make advances on the security of those shares.

324. The Discounts or Advances by the Company, on securities bearing the name of any Director or Officer thereof, as drawer, acceptor, or endorser, not to exceed at any time one-third of the total Advances and Discounts of the Bank.

325. The dividends to Shareholders to be made out of Profits only, and not out of the subscribed Capital of the Company.

326. The total amount of the Debts and Liabilities of the Company, whether upon Bonds, Bills, Promissory Notes, or otherwise contracted, over and above the amount of Deposits on Banking Accounts with the Company's Establishments, not to exceed at any time three times the amount of the capital stock subscribed and actually paid up.

327. No Promissory or other Notes to be issued for Sums under £1. sterling (or in the North American Colonies £1. Halifax currency), or the equivalent thereof in any other local currency, and not for fractional portions of such Pound or other equivalent amount.

328. All Promissory Notes of the Company, whether issued from the Principal Establishment or from Branch Banks, to bear date at the place of issue, and to be payable on demand in Specie at the place of issue.

329. The total amount of the Promissory Notes payable on demand, issued, and in circulation, not at any time to exceed the amount of the Capital Stock of the Company actually paid up. A reserve of specie always to be maintained equal to one-third of the amount of Notes at any time in circulation.

330. In the event of the assets of the Company being insufficient to meet its engagements, the Shareholders to be responsible to the extent of twice the amount of their subscribed Shares (that is, for the amount subscribed, and for a further and additional amount equal thereto).

331. Suspension of Specie Payments on Demand at any of the Company's Banking Establishments, for a given number of days (not in any case exceeding sixty) within any one year, either consecutively or at intervals, or other breach of the Special Conditions upon which the Company is empowered to open Banking Establishments or to issue and circulate Promissory Notes, to forfeit those privileges, which shall cease and determine upon such forfeiture as if the period for which they had been granted had expired.

332. The Company to make up and publish periodical Statements of its Assets and Liabilities monthly; showing, under the heads specified in the form which is inserted in the Appendix, p. 346, the average of the amount of its Notes in circulation, and other Liabilities, at the termination of each week or month, during the period to which the Statement refers, and the average amount of Specie or other Assets that were available to meet the same. Copies of these Statements to be submitted to the Government of the Colony within which the Company may be established; and the Company to be prepared, if called upon, to verify such Statements by the production, as confidential documents, of the Weekly or Monthly Balance Sheets from which the same are compiled. And also to be prepared, upon requisition from the Lords of the Treasury, to furnish, in like manner, such further information respecting the state or proceedings of its Banking Establishments as their Lordships may see fit to call for. The Governor to be also empowered to verify the Statements of the Company of the amount of Specie held by them.

333. The Charter or Act of Incorporation may provide for an addition to the Capital of the Company within specified limits, with the sanction of the Lords of the Treasury; such additional Capital and the Shares and Subscriptions which may constitute the same, to be subject in every respect, from and after the date of the signification of such sanction, to conditions and regulations similar to those applying to the original Capital.

§ IV. Applications for Charters.

334. Applications for Charters of Incorporation of Joint Stock Companies engaged exclusively or chiefly in Colonial undertakings, whether made in this Country or in the Colonies, cannot be granted until the heads of the project shall have been submitted for the consideration of the Governor and his Executive Council.

335. The Governor will furnish the Secretary of State with a Report stating whether the undertaking is one which in his opinion it would be desirable to encourage, with a view to Colonial interests, especially as regards the Colony under his Government.

336. The Governor's Report will be taken into consideration by the Secretary of State and by the
Board of Trade, or, in cases in which the application relates exclusively to Banking Companies, by the Board of Treasury.

337. Her Majesty's Government reserves to itself the power of deciding whether privileges, to be exercised under Charters granted for this Country, should be extended to Companies, approved by the Colonial Government, for Colonial undertakings.

338. The Imperial Act 18 & 19 Vict., c. 133, provides for the limitation of liability of Members of certain Joint Stock Companies.

See also Circular of 16th March, 1874, as to establishment of Agencies, and Circular of 18th August, 1875, by which it is directed that Laws relating to Banking undertakings and the circulation of Notes should contain a suspending clause.

CHAPTER XI.

§ I. Expenditure of Public Money in Colonies not possessing Representative Assemblies.

339. All disbursements of the public money are to be made by the Colonial Treasurer, under authority from the Officer administering the Government; and any Officer improperly authorizing or directing any expenditure contrary to the instructions which he may receive from Her Majesty's Government will himself be held personally responsible for the amount improperly authorized.

340. Salaries, Fixed Allowances, and Contingencies are to be classed under the head "Establishments;" and all other ordinary expenditure, and all extraordinary and special disbursements are to be classed under separate heads of Service in the Form prescribed in the Treasury Instructions issued to Governors.

340a. All Salaries and other authorized Charges up to the end of each financial year should, as far as possible, be defrayed within the year. When the last day of a year happens to be a "dies non," the payment of Salaries, &c., up to the close of the year could be made on the previous day.

341. The Governor is not authorized to make any addition to the Fixed Establishment of the Colony, or to make any different appropriation of the established salaries of any Public Department, either as regards the number of appointments or the rates of salary and emolument, without the previous sanction of Her Majesty's Government.

342. Should, however, any special circumstances occur which in the opinion of the Governor in Council may render addition or alteration necessary for the due carrying on of the public service, without waiting for such sanction he will cause such new or altered salary to be borne on a Schedule of Provisional or Supplementary Establishment, reporting the same to the Secretary of State.

343. Whenever the approval of Her Majesty's Government to any provisional appointment is received by the Governor, he must cause the same to be transferred to the Schedule of Fixed Establishment.

344. As a general rule, the Governor must not propose to the Council the execution of any new public work, or of extensive alterations and improvements in any existing building, &c., for which he has not obtained the previous sanction of Her Majesty's Government.

345. Whenever the Governor may apply to the Secretary of State for such authority, he must send with such application all the necessary plans, estimates, and specifications, according to which the projected work is to be carried into execution, together with an account of the cost to be incurred under specific heads of expenditure, and a report of the grounds on which the work is recommended.

346. When the sanction of Her Majesty's Government has been given, the Governor will lay before the Council, at their meeting, to take into consideration the General Estimates for the year next ensuing, the plans, estimates, and specifications of the proposed work, with any other information which he may consider necessary; and when the Council has voted the funds required for the work, the Governor may proceed with it, without waiting for further authority.

347. But should the Governor be of opinion that the work is urgently required, and that serious inconvenience might result from delaying it (after the sanction of Her Majesty's Government had been obtained) until the period when the Annual Estimates are brought forward, he may propose to the Council a Supplemental Estimate for that purpose.

348. Special cases may arise of pressing emergency (more particularly in distant Colonies), in which it might not be practicable to obtain the previous sanction of Her Majesty's Government for a proposed work. In such cases the Governor will not fail to call for and to lay before the Council the necessary plans, estimates, and specifications according to which the work is to be carried into execution, and to report fully to Her Majesty's Government, by the earliest opportunity, on the absolute necessity of the expenditure which he may have incurred without their previous sanction.

349. In the case of public works of magnitude to be undertaken in any Colony, and to be defrayed by Parliamentary Grant, the following rules must be observed:

1. That as a preliminary step to any such work, a survey and estimate shall be made by an Officer acting under the orders of some responsible Department.

2. That on a first application for a vote of money, an estimate of the sum likely to be required for the whole work shall be laid before the House of Commons.

3. In cases in which such works may require more than one year for their completion, and where money is proposed to be voted on account, there shall be submitted to the House in each year, and before a further vote is proposed, a statement of the sums already voted, of the money actually expended up to the date of the last accounts, of all outstanding demands, and of the sum still wanting to complete the work; and any deviation from the original plan, or any contemplated addition to the magnitude or expense of the whole work, will be inserted in the estimate of the year.

4. No Department of the Government shall authorize any Officer to enter into contract for any work, beyond the limits of the annual grants of money, without the sanction of a Minute of the Lords of the Treasury, which will be laid before the House with as little delay as possible.

§ II. Colonial Estimates.

350. In the Colonies not possessing Representative Assemblies, the Governor should submit to the Council of his Government, before the expiration of the month of June, in each year, such an Estimate as he may think necessary of the whole expenditure, not already fixed under the sanction of Her Majesty's Government, which is intended to be charged upon the Colonial revenue for the year then
next ensuing; and he should transmit to the Secretary of State by the earliest opportunity, the Ordinance providing for the service of that year.

351. When the annual Estimate shall have been passed by the Council, and the Ordinance confirmed by Her Majesty, the expenditure of the year must be held to be definitely limited and arranged. Should, however, any further disbursements on account of the service of that year be required which could not have been foreseen, the proper course will be for the Governor to submit to the Legislative Council a Supplementary Estimate of the expenditure so required.

352. The Governor should transmit with the Annual Estimates such full and sufficient information as to every expense of an unusual nature therein comprised as may be necessary to enable Her Majesty's Government to decide upon the propriety of the proposed expenditure, together with a table exhibiting the variations from the preceding year.

353. The Governor should, at the same time that he proposes to the Council the Estimate of the ensuing year's expenditure, submit to them the draft of any Ordinance which may be necessary to provide the ways and means by which the expenditure is to be met.

354.* In cases in which the Colonial Accounts are transmitted to this country for final audit, they should be accompanied by certified copies of all Estimates, or Supplementary Estimates, of expenditure for the service of the year to which the Accounts relate, and of any Ordinances for the imposition of taxes for that year, together with certified copies of the Despatches which shall have been addressed to him by the Secretary of State, conveying the opinion of Her Majesty's Government upon any such Estimates or Ordinances; and the dates of all such Despatches should be notified at the foot of the Estimates, or the remark that "no Despatch had been received at that date."

355. The control of the Local Auditor over all Revenue and Receipts, extends to a comparison of Receipts with all Collectors' Books, and with Statements, Returns, and other documents which may serve to establish that the sums received are those which ought to have been received; and, if not, to requiring a statement of the cause of each deficiency, and the measures taken for the recovery of any arrears.

356. The Local Auditor's examination should, therefore, include a reference to Tax Rolls and other records of Assessments, to periodical returns of licences, certified by the Colonial Secretary or other Officer empowered to direct the issue of the same; to similar Returns from the Magistrates, or other Law Officers, of all fines, forfeitures, &c.; to Lists, giving the names of any persons liable to be called upon for Tuition Fees, or other periodic payments to the Colonial Government; and, as to casual receipts, under the direction of the Governor, to half-yearly returns of Receivable Orders, issued by his authority in respect thereof.

357. Should any Return, Statement, or other Record, which may appear to the auditor necessary to substantiate the entries in the Receiver's Accounts, or to exhibit the amount of arrears, be wanting or defective, it will be the duty of the Auditor to call for the proper documents, or, if necessary, to make a representation on the subject to the Governor; and, should any difficulty arise as to the production of the same, a copy of such representation, and of any directions which may be given thereon, should be transmitted, with the Accounts sent home by the Auditor.

358. Detailed statements of the revenue and expenditure of the Colony should be annually published in the Colonial Gazette, immediately after the period when it is required that the Accounts of each year should be transmitted for audit; and in such publication, the funds arising from the property or droits of the Crown, are to be stated separately from those which arise from taxes levied upon the inhabitants of the Colony.

III. Treasury Bills.—Funds derived from Imperial Grants in Aid of Local Revenues.

359. It is to be observed that sums voted by Parliament in respect of any financial year are not intended to defray the charges which become due in that year, but to meet such charges only as shall actually come into course of payment within the year. It is desirable, however, that the charges becoming due in each year should, as far as practicable, be defrayed from the Votes for the same year. With this view it will be proper that all Salaries and other authorized charges up to the end of any financial year should be paid before the close of the year, unless there be some special reason to the contrary.

360. Bills for Salaries and Allowances must not be drawn for broken periods of Quarters, except in cases where the services of the Officer have commenced or ceased within the Quarter; and in such cases Certificates should be transmitted, showing the date from which and up to which the Salary or Allowance may be payable.

360a. Governors will not be at liberty, without special authority, to draw funds before the commencement of a financial year, on the credit of any proposed Parliamentary Vote for that year.

360b. All Bills on the credit of the Parliamentary Grants in aid should be drawn on the Paymaster-General. When the service is of an ordinary description, they should be drawn at ten days' sight; but in every case of an unusual character, they should be at thirty days' sight. They should bear a serial number for each financial year. Salary Bills should be in the form prescribed in Appendix 13 (p. 346), with the addition of this serial number. All other Bills should distinctly specify the service and the particular Parliamentary Grant in respect of which they are drawn; and whenever the service is of an unusual character the Bills should also show the date and description of the document conveying the authority for the expenditure.

360c. In cases where Salaries, Allowances, or Pensions, chargeable to Imperial Funds, are paid by monthly payments of one-twelfth of the annual rates, such payments are to be treated as final settlements—i.e., payments in full—for the periods to which they relate; and in these cases the computation for a broken period of a month is to be made with reference to the number of days in such month;

Thus:—If a salary of £120 per annum is paid by equal monthly payments, falling due at the close of each calendar month, the monthly amount will be £10; and if payment has to be made for a broken period, say, to 15th January inclusive, the amount to be paid will be 1/12 of £10.

In cases where Salaries, Allowances, or Pensions are paid by quarterly payments of one-fourth of the annual rates, the computation for a broken period of a quarter is to be made with reference to the number of days in that quarter;

* Colonial Regulation 354 superseded by Circular of 20th January, 1875.—(Ed., C. O. List.)
Thus:—If a salary of £120 per annum is paid by quarterly payments, falling due at the close of each calendar quarter, the quarterly amount will be £30; and if payment has to be made for a broken period, say, to 15th January inclusive, the amount to be paid will be £5 (in leap-year £6 of £30.)

361. It is important that the Secretary of State should be furnished with an immediate and direct advice of every Bill that may be drawn on the credit of the Grantees in aid; and this advice should be despatched at once so as to ensure, as far as possible, that it may reach this country as soon as the Bill itself. A duplicate of the advice should be sent by the first subsequent opportunity. It will no longer be necessary that separate advices should in these cases be sent to the Treasury or Paymaster-General. Salary Bills should be advised in the Form given in Appendix 18 (the serial number being added). The advice of other Bills should contain all the particulars given in the Bills themselves.

362. In all cases in which sums have been voted by Parliament for specified Salaries and Allowances, the Bills correctly drawn by a Governor for his own Salary, &c., or in favour of a subordinate Officer for that Officer's Salary, &c., will, if duly endorsed, be taken by the Comptroller and Auditor-General as sufficient final discharges; but where sums have been voted by Parliament, not for payment of Salary, but for particular Colonial services or, in terms still more comprehensive, in aid of Colonial Revenue, the Comptroller of Audit will require evidence of the proper application of the money. With this view it will, in such cases, be necessary that the advice of a Bill should be accompanied (or, if that would not be possible without delaying the advice, then followed immediately) by a Certificate, to be signed by the Colonial Treasurer, or other Officer acting in that capacity, and countersigned by the Governor himself, to the effect that the money had been carried to the credit of the Colonial Revenue. The same course should be adopted in the case of Advances from the Treasury Chest for other services than Salaries specified in the Parliamentary Votes. Copies of the Forms to be used for this purpose are given in Appendix 19a (p. 547). In the absence of these Certificates, the amounts of the Bills, or of the Advances from the Treasury Chests, will ordinarily be charged as Imprests against the Governor.

362a. In any cases in which money has been voted by Parliament for specially named Colonial Services, documentary evidence must be furnished that the money has been applied to the particular Service for which it was voted. On this point special instructions will be given to the Governors concerned.

363. When Salaries are specified in the Parliamentary Votes, Income Tax will be levied on them, under the General Rules laid down in Paragraphs 365 to 368 of the Regulations.

363a. When Salaries are not specified in the Parliamentary Grants, it is undesirable that Bills should be drawn for the actual Salaries of the Governor or other Colonial Officers. The Secretary of State will, however, be prepared to consider any special circumstances under which a departure from this rule may be desired. It will be proper as a general practice that the Governor should draw for round sums as Imprests on account of the Parliamentary Grant in aid, which Imprests should, of course, be carried to the credit of the Colonial Revenue. From that Revenue, Salaries not specified in the Parliamentary Grant should be paid without any deduction on account of the Imperial Income Tax.

364. Governors and other Officers whose Salaries are specified in the Parliamentary Votes, and who may elect to have their Salaries paid through the medium of Agents in this country, can continue so to do. In lieu, however, of the Life Certificates hitherto used, a formal order on the Paymaster-General must be obtained by the Agents from this Department. When Governors and Lieutenant-Governors or Administrators shall, in the first instance, have signified the mode in which their salary shall be drawn, it will be desirable that they should adhere to that mode.

365. All salaries and personal allowances and emoluments, and all pensions and superannuations, retired or compassionate allowances, paid from funds derived from the revenues of Great Britain, whether provided by special Parliamentary Grant or otherwise, are liable to the Income Tax unless the whole annual income of the recipient is less than 100l.* When the whole income is less than 200l.* a year, a deduction of 60l.+ is made, and the balance only taxed. It will therefore be the duty of the Governor on all occasions to make the proper deductions accordingly from the amount of the bills which he may have occasion in future to draw on the Paymaster-General, whether on his own account or for the salaries or allowances of other persons; and he will convey an intimation to the same effect to any Officers or Functionaries within his Government, who may be authorised to draw bills on the Paymaster-General for any such payments.

366. In cases where total or partial exemption may be claimed from the Tax, an affidavit must be made by the claimants and transmitted with the bill, to the effect that his income, including that on account of which the bill is drawn, is in the first case less than 100l.* per annum, in the second case less than 200l.* and such affidavits must have reference to the whole income of the party from whatever source derived; for, although emoluments derived from Colonial revenues or property are not taxable unless the recipients reside in Great Britain, they must be taken into account in considering a claim to exemption from the Tax, or any portion of it, on Income derived from this Country.

367. When bills are drawn on account of expenses or disbursements as well as for salaries and allowances, a statement of the proportion of the amount applicable to the latter must accompany them, and the proper deductions should be made from the salaries and allowances, unless exemption should be claimed, in which case affidavits ought to accompany the bills.

368. The Forms, to be filled up by persons claiming total or partial exemption from the tax, are inserted in the Appendix. (Pages 847-49)

§ IV. Expenses on account of Liberated Africans.—Mode of rendering the Accounts of Expenses incurred under the Provisions of the Acts for the Abolition of the Slave Trade.

369. The Collectors or chief Officers of the Customs in those Colonies where no other arrangement has been specially directed are to receive, protect, and provide for all such Natives of Africa as may be put in their charge from vessels condemned as prize.

370. The Collector or other Officer is authorized to enter into the requisite contracts, to be approved by the Officer administering the Government, for the maintenance of the Africans at a fixed rate per diem, and for defraying the cost of clothing, necessaries, and other contingencies. This mode of supporting the Africans is considered preferable to that of purchasing provisions in large quantities for their use.

* Now £150 and £400 respectively. † Now £120.—Ed. C.O.L.
371. The Collector or other Officer will bring in the abstracts of accounts of his expenses, to be passed before the Officer administering the Government in Council, every three months. A certificate, to be signed by the Officer administering the Government, is to be subjoined to the General Abstract of the Expenditure, stating that the detailed documents referred to in the abstract have been carefully inspected, and have been approved.

372. In those cases in which the Colony is dependent on a Superior Government, the Abstracts of Expenditure, when certified by the Officer in charge of the subordinate Government, are to be forwarded to the Governor-in-Chief for his inspection and approval previously to the amount being discharged. Upon the passing of each quarterly account by the Officer administering the Government in Council, and in the case of subordinate Governments upon the subsequent approval of the Governor-in-Chief being signified, the abstract will be returned to the Collector, in whose favour the Officer administering the Government will thereupon grant a Warrant on the Treasury Chest for the amount allowed. The Officer granting such warrant will forthwith transmit a notification and report thereof to the Lords of the Treasury, and will forward with such notification a copy of the account, in discharge of which the issue from the Chest has been authorized. Any neglect of these forms will be productive of embarrassment and delay.

373. Governors are strictly enjoined to abstain from drawing for and issuing for this service any allowance or gratuity of which the propriety or legality may admit of a doubt, until they shall have communicated with and received instructions from Her Majesty's Government on the subject; and they are to limit the payments in the meantime to the amount of the actual outlay, for the maintenance and other unavoidable expenses.

374. If any sums shall have been issued, paid, or expended by their order, which ought not to have been so issued, paid, or expended, or ought not to be charged to the public, they will become personally responsible for the amount, under the provisions of the 1 & 2 Geo. 4, cap. 121, sec. 5.

375. With a due regard, therefore, to their own security, as well as the interests of the public, Governors must at all times exercise a watchful superintendence and control over the expenditure to which these Regulations refer, and enforce the strictest economy consistent with the welfare of the African and the good of the Service.

CHAPTER XII.

§ I. Trade and Navigation.

376. The Customs Establishments in all the Colonies are under the control and management of the several Colonial Governments, and the Colonial Legislatures are empowered to establish their own Customs Regulations and Rates of Duty.

377. The Imperial Act 16 & 17 Vict., c. 107, s. 324-5, provides for a freedom of navigation between the United Kingdom, or the British Possessions and Foreign Countries. But with a view of placing British Ships in Foreign Ports as nearly as possible on the same footing as Foreign Ships in British Ports, the Crown has the power, by Order in Council, of restricting the privileges of Foreign Ships, and of imposing additional Duties, in cases in which British Ships may be subject in any Foreign Country to Prohibitions or Restrictions from which the Ships of that Country are exempt, or in which any Preference whatever may be shown to National Vessels over British Vessels, or in which British Trade and Navigation is not placed by such Country upon as advantageous a footing as the Trade and Navigation of the most favoured Nation.

378. The Crown has also the power, sect. 328, by Order in Council, on Address from the Legislature of any Colony, to regulate its Coasting Trade, and to authorize the conveyance of goods or passengers from one part of a British Possession to another in other than British Ships; or on receiving addresses or joint address from two or more British Possessions, to place the trade between them on the footing of a Coasting Trade, and otherwise to regulate the same.

379. Under sec. 31 of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1854, the Governor is intrusted with the powers which, in respect to the Registry of Ships or of any interest therein, are vested by the Act in the Commissioners of Customs in England. It is to the Governor, therefore, that the Registrars of Shipping are directed to look for instructions.

380. The Governor usually appoints the Collectors of Customs in the Colony to act as Registrars of Shipping and Superintendents of Mercantile Marine under the Merchant Shipping Acts, the duties of the Registrars and Superintendents being defined in the Instructions which are issued from time to time by the Board of Trade, with the sanction of the Secretary of State.

381. It being, however, important for statistical purposes that information respecting the Trade and Navigation of the Colony should be forwarded to the Home Government, the points enumerated in the following sections should have the Governor's careful attention.

§ II. Shipping.

382. Particulars of the Registry, Mortgage, Sale, or Loss of Ships should be forwarded by Registrars of Shipping in the Colonies to the Chief Registrar of Shipping, Custom House, London, and of the changes in the appointments of Masters of Ships to the Registrar-General of Seamen, Adelaide Place, London Bridge, by the next mail after the transaction takes place.

383. The Registry of a Ship should be reported in the Customs Form 19, and the transactions subsequent to her Registry, such as her Sale, Mortgage, or other Dealings, in Customs Form 20. In these Forms the full address of each Owner should be given, and the letters M. O. marked against the name of the Managing Owner, if there are more Owners than one. The Certificate of all closed and cancelled Registries should be forwarded to the Chief Registrar of Shipping, with a memorandum therein, stating the grounds of closing or cancelling the Register. When the Certificate of Registry is lost, a Form, No. 20, should be sent, giving the date and particulars of the closing the Registry, and the loss of the Certificate. The changes in the appointments of Masters which are endorsed on the Certificate of Registry, should be reported to the Registrar-General of Seamen in Form 21, or by letter.

384. At the end of each year the Registrar of Shipping should prepare and transmit to the Chief Registrar of Shipping, Custom House, London, an Account made up to 31st December, showing:—

(a.) The Names, &c., of all Ships on the Register Books of the Port on the previous 1st January.
(b.) The Names, &c., of all Ships registered at the Port during the year, distinguishing those Vessels in the List which have been lost, sold to Foreigners, or transferred to other Ports. At the end of the List an Abstract should be given of the Number and Tonnage of Vessels belonging to the Port on 31st December. This List should be transmitted as early as possible in the month of January, and as these Returns are the foundation of Statistical information laid before Parliament, too much care cannot be exercised by Registrars in ensuring their accuracy.

§ III. Seamen.

385. The duties which Superintendents of Mercantile Marine are required to perform in respect to Merchant Seamen are detailed in their Instructions. The principal point which requires the attention of the Governor, is the necessity for the Home Government being furnished with the Board of Trade Return, CC 21, by each mail. This Return materially assists in tracing the whereabouts of Naval Volunteers who have left their Ships, it also enables the Home Government to obtain from Shipowners repayment of expenses incurred in relieving Seamen who have been left behind sick, and payment of the Wages of Crews where Ships are lost with all papers.

§ IV. Lighthouses, &c.

386. Notice of any new Lighthouses, Buoys, or Beacons placed or erected on the shores of the British Possessions abroad, and of any alterations in those already existing, should be forwarded as early as possible by the Governor through the Secretary of State, in a Memorandum addressed to the Board of Trade, who will communicate to the Admiralty for publication. A Form of Notice of a new Light, or alteration of a Light, is inserted in the Appendix (page 350).

387. Any new facts with regard to Navigation, such as the formation or discovery of new Reefs, Shoals, Currents, &c., should also be sent home as early as possible, in the same manner and for the same purpose.

§ V. Wrecks.

388. For the purposes of the Wreck Abstract annually presented to Parliament, particulars of every casualty to Shipping on the shores of any British Possession abroad, or to any British Shipping at sea concerning which information can be obtained, should be forwarded by the proper Colonial Officer to the Board of Trade, in Board of Trade Form WR. I. (Colonial), at the earliest opportunity after the occurrence, and an Abstract of such casualties should if possible be forwarded to the Board of Trade at the end of every year.

Forms for the Return and the Abstract will be supplied on application to the Board of Trade.

CHAPTER XIII.

§ I. Waste Lands, &c.

389. The management of the waste lands in nearly all the Colonies to which emigrants from this country habitually resort, has been conceded to the Local Legislatures and Governments.

390. Information on the subject of the waste lands and of emigration may be obtained by reference to the "Colonization Circular," issued by the Colonial Office, imparting from time to time the most recent information derived from official returns.

391. The carriage of emigrants from British Ports is regulated by the Passengers Acts, 1855 and 1863, 18 & 19 Vict., cap. 119, and 26 & 27 Vict., cap. 51, which are carried into execution by the Board of Trade.

392. Land privileges are now offered to Naval and Military Officers only in British Columbia (Mainland), and British Honduras.

393. The Officers to whom such privileges are offered are (a) Naval Officers of the Military Branch, of all grades not lower than that of Sub-lieutenants; (b) Military Officers of all grades not lower than that of Subalterns of seven years' standing; (c) Regimental Staff Officers; and (d) Medical Officers of both Services, of not less than five years' standing.

394. The Officers not entitled to land privileges are: Naval and Military Chaplains; Commissariat Officers; Subalterns under seven years' standing; Medical Officers of less than five years' standing; Midshipmen; Cadets; Warrant Officers of every description; Officers of any of the Civil Branches of the Navy or Army; and, lastly, Officers who have ceased for the space of three calendar months to belong to Her Majesty's Service, and have not obtained the Memorandum of Rank and Service hereinafter mentioned.

395. In British Columbia (Mainland) a certain quantity of land is granted in lieu of remission of purchase money. In British Honduras land must be purchased under the land regulations for the time being in force in the Colony, and a certain amount of the purchase money is then remitted. These allowances are regulated by the rank and length of service of the Officer, as shown in the following scales:

| In British Columbia (Mainland) | Acres |
|--------------------------------|-------|
| Field Officers of 25 years' service in the whole | 600   |
| Field Officers of 20 years' service in the whole | 500   |
| Field Officers of 15 years' service in the whole | 400   |
| Captains of 20 years' service and upwards in the whole | 400   |
| Captains of 15 years' service or less in the whole | 300   |
| Subalterns of 20 years' service and upwards in the whole | 300   |
| Subalterns of 7 years' service and upwards in the whole | 200   |

| In British Honduras | £     |
|---------------------|-------|
| Field Officers of 25 years' service and upwards in the whole | 600   |
| Field Officers of 20 years' service and upwards in the whole | 500   |
| Field Officers of 15 or less years' service in the whole | 400   |
| Captains of 20 years' service and upwards in the whole | 400   |
| Captains of 15 years' service and less in the whole | 300   |
| Subalterns of 20 years' service and upwards in the whole | 300   |
| Subalterns of 7 years' service and upwards in the whole | 200   |
Although these scales refer only to Military Officers, they apply also to Naval Officers, who will receive allowances corresponding with their relative rank to Officers in the Army, as prescribed in Her Majesty's Order in Council of 11th June, 1863.

396. Any Officer desirous of availing himself of these privileges must obtain a Memorandum, if a Naval Man, from the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty, and if a Military man, from the Office of the Officer Commanding-in-Chief, specifying his rank, length of service, and date of retirement. This document will not be issued more than once to the same Officer; and it must, within one year from the date of the Officer's retirement, be presented to the Governor of one of the above-named Colonies, otherwise the Officer will not be entitled to any land privileges in the Colony.

No document from the Office of the Secretary of State is necessary.

397. As the sole object of the regulations is to encourage the bond fide settlement of Naval and Military Officers in the Colony, an Officer, on presentation of his Memorandum of Rank and Service to the Governor, will receive in the first instance a Location Ticket only, for the land which in British Columbia he may obtain, or which in either of the two other Colonies he may have purchased to the extent of his remission money.

398. At the expiration of two years from the date of such Location Ticket, the Officer, on paying the customary survey and other fees, will receive in exchange for it a Crown Grant, provided he can show to the satisfaction of the Governor, but not otherwise, that he is a bond fide settler in the Colony, and has not only continuously resided therein since the receipt of his Location Ticket, but that he has resided on the land described in it for such length of time, and made substantial and permanent improvements thereon of such description and value as the Governor may have prescribed in any general notice published by his authority in the Government Gazette of the Colony.

399. If application should not be made for a Crown Grant in exchange for the Location Ticket within a twelvemonth from the expiration of the two years for which it was issued, the Officer's claim will be considered as extinguished, and the land will absolutely revert to the Crown. No transfer of the land will be allowed or be valid until a Crown Grant thereof has been obtained.

400. But if an Officer has obtained a Memorandum of Rank and Service, and dies before he can obtain a Location Ticket, the Governor of the Colony is authorized to make the Memorandum available, as he may think proper, in favour of a child or children, or other nearest representative of the deceased, who will then become entitled to the same rights and be subject to the same conditions as attached to the deceased. In case an Officer dies after the Location Ticket has been obtained, the land to which it refers will be granted to his legal representative.

401. As the land regulations in the above-named Colonies are liable at any time to be altered, Her Majesty's Government cannot guarantee the permanence of these regulations,—nor can the amount of remission in purchase money made to Officers be increased on account of any increased value which may at any time be set upon the Crown lands in the Colony.

CHAPTER XIV.

§ I. Naturalization.

402. The naturalization of aliens in the Colonies is now effected under authority of the statute 10* & 11 Vict. c. 83, which (besides removing doubts which then existed as to the legality of former proceedings in the colonies) empowers the Legislature of every Colony to confer on aliens by law all or any of the privileges of naturalization within such Colony.

403. When any measure for such a purpose is proposed, the Governor should ascertain whether his instructions do or do not require the insertion of a suspending clause; and he should also take care that words are inserted in the terms of the statute confining the privileges granted to the limits of the Colony.

§ II. Passports to naturalized British Subjects in the Colonies.

404. Governors are authorized to issue Passports for foreign travel to persons naturalized in their respective Colonies. The Form of Passport is inserted in the Appendix (page 351). These Passports must be signed by the Officer administering the Government, and must contain an express declaration that the person receiving the Passport has been naturalized as a British subject in the Colony.

CHAPTER XV.

Applications for Opinions of Law Officers in this Country.

405. If in any case a Colonial Government or Legislature desire to obtain the opinion of the English Law Officers on any important question of Law which may have arisen in the administration of the Colony, it is necessary that the Secretary of State should be furnished with a detailed statement explaining precisely what doubts have arisen, and under what circumstances, enumerating the Instruments or Laws bearing on these doubts (of which complete copies should in all cases be annexed), setting forth, verbatim, the particular provisions of these Instruments or Laws which appear relevant to the matter in hand, and in conclusion stating explicitly the particular questions to which answers are desired. All papers for the consideration of the Attorney General and Solicitor General should be sent in quadruplicate.

CHAPTER XVI.

§ I. Criminal Trials.

406. No Judge presiding on a criminal trial must, upon any account, fail to take notes of the evidence adduced; and no capital Sentence must be executed until the Governor of the Colony shall have perused those notes.

407. In general no reference, in criminal cases, is to be made from the Government of any Colony to
