The agricultural prosperity of the island is greatly retarded by want of water, and by locusts. The rainfall is somewhat deficient in the whole, and what there is, in great part goes to waste, from the unfortunate configuration of the country, the want of trees, and the lack of intelligent activity on the part of the peasants in its storage and distribution.

The work of locust destruction has been vigorously prosecuted for the last four years with great success, chiefly on what is known as the “screen and pit system.” The screens are stretched across the country in front of the armies of young locusts on the march, and as they are topped with oilcloth, the locusts are unable to get over them, and are gradually forced into pits dug at intervals transversely to the screens, from which they cannot emerge, as they are topped with a zinc lining.

It is estimated that on the average only one-third of the cultivable land in Cyprus is actually brought under cultivation in any one year.

The island has suffered greatly from the extensive destruction of its forests, but what remains of them is reported to be recovering under the better care now bestowed upon them.

British Occupation.

On the 4th June, 1878, a Convention was signed at Constantinople between the representatives of Her Britannic Majesty and the Sultan of Turkey, by which England engaged to join the Sultan in defending his Asiatic possessions against Russia in certain contingencies, and the Sultan, “in order to enable England to make necessary provision for executing her engagements,” consented “to assign the Island of Cyprus, to be occupied and administered by England.” On the 1st of July an Annex to this Convention was signed at Constantinople, in explanation of the conditions of the occupation. The following is the English official version of its provisions:—

“I. That a Mussulman religious Tribunal (Mahkémé-i-Shéréh) shall continue to exist in the island, which will take exclusive cognizance of religious matters, and of no others, concerning the Mussulman population of the island.

“II. That a Mussulman resident in the Island shall be named by the Board of Pious Foundations in Turkey (Evkaf) to superintend, in conjunction with a Delegate to be appointed by the British Authorities, the administration of the property, funds, and lands belonging to mosques, cemeteries, Mussulman schools, and other religious establishments existing in Cyprus.

“III. That England will pay to the Porte whatever is the present excess of revenue over expenditure in the island; this excess to be calculated upon and determined by the average of the last five years, stated to be 22,936 purses, to be duly verified hereafter, and to the exclusion of the produce of State and Crown lands let or sold during that period.

“IV. That the Sublime Porte may freely sell and lease lands and other property in Cyprus belonging to the Ottoman Crown and State (Arazi Miriyé vé Emlaki Houmayoun), the produce of which does not form part of the revenue of the island referred to in Article III.

“V. That the English Government, through their competent authorities, may purchase compulsorily, at a fair price, land required for public use.

* The exercise of these rights by the Porte was agreed to be abandoned from the 1st of April, 1879, for a payment of £3,000 a year.
provements, or for other public purposes, and land which is not cultivated.

"VI. That if Russia restores to Turkey Kars and the other conquests made by her in Armenia during the last war, the Island of Cyprus will be evacuated by England, and the Convention of the 4th of June, 1878, will be at an end."

Government.

On the 14th September, 1878, an Order in Council was issued for the regulation of the government of the island. The administration was placed in the hands of an officer, styled High Commissioner; a Legislative Council was established, to consist of the High Commissioner and not less than four, and not more than eight other members, half to be officials, and half to be inhabitants not holding office. The latter were appointed to seats in Council for two years, and were eligible for re-appointment. An Executive Council was also established, and the High Commissioner was invested with the powers of pardon, appointment, suspension from office, &c., &c., usually conferred upon a Colonial Governor. So much of this Order in Council as relates to the Legislative Council has been superseded by another, dated the 30th Nov., 1882, under which the Legislature consists of the High Commissioner, who is usually to preside, six non-elective Members, being office-holders, and twelve elected Members, three to be chosen by the Mahometan and nine by the non-Mahometan inhabitants of the Island. British subjects and foreigners who have resided five years in Cyprus can exercise the franchise, and are eligible for election as well as Ottoman subjects. The qualification for the franchise consists in the payment of any class of the taxes called Verghi. Judges are not eligible for election. The Council may be dissolved by the High Commissioner whenever he sees fit, and must be dissolved at the end of five years. The first Council is to be dissolved not later than the end of three years from its first election, which took place in May, 1883. The island, for legal and administrative purposes, is divided into six districts, namely—Nicosia, Larissa, Limassol, Famagusta, Kyrenia, and Papho. In each the Government is represented by a Commissioner. For electoral purposes the island is divided into three districts, consisting of two administrative districts each.

The courts which were in existence at the time of the occupation have been superseded by a new set of courts constituted by an Order of Her Majesty in Council, dated the 30th November, 1882, which provides for:

(1) A supreme court of criminal and civil appeal, consisting at present of two judges.

(2) Six assize courts, having unlimited criminal jurisdiction, and consisting of one or more judges of the supreme court, sitting with one or more judges of the district courts.

(3) Six district courts, having criminal jurisdiction up to three years' imprisonment, and unlimited civil jurisdiction; and consisting of a President and two ordinary Members, one a Christian and the other a Moslem.

(4) Six Magistrates' courts, consisting of the President of the district court or the two ordinary Members.

(5) Village courts, at present ten in number, in addition to the judges of the district courts, and having jurisdiction in cases of commonage, disputes as to the partition of property, and debt, &c., up to 5l.

Actions in the courts are divided into "Ottoman" and "Foreign" actions, according to the nationality of the defendant or defendants, and in "Foreign" actions the President of the court alone generally exercises jurisdiction; as also in criminal cases against non-Ottomans.

The Mahkémé-i-Shérích, or Mussulman religious courts, are presided over by Cadi's, but their duties are strictly confined to jurisdiction in religious cases affecting the Mahometan population, as contemplated by the Anglo-Turkish Convention.

The principal sources of revenue in Cyprus are:—

1. Verghi Taxes—Consisting of—
   (1) A tax of 4 per 1,000 on the capital value of lands or houses occupied by the owner.
   (2) A tax of 4 per cent. on the annual rent of lands or houses let.
   (3) A tax of 3 per cent. on trade profits or salaries.

2. Military exemption tax of 2s. 6d. a head on males.

3. Tithes of the principal products of the island, assessed in money.

4. Sheep, goat, and pig tax.

5. An excise on wine, spirits, and tobacco.

6. Stamps, court fees, royalties, licences, &c., &c.

7. Salt monopoly.

8. Import duties according to the following tariff:—

(The Oke = 2·8 lbs. Avordupois. 9 Cyprus Piastres = 1s.)

*Arms, 20 per cent. ad valorem.

*Ammunition, 20 per cent. ad valorem.

Salt, refined, 2 c.p. per oke.

Tobacco:
Leaf (other than "Tumbeki"), 1s. for every 2 okes.

†Cigars, 75 per cent. ad valorem, provided that the amount thus charged shall in no case exceed the sum of 14s., nor be less than 3s. per oke.

†Cigarettes, 75 per cent. ad valorem.

†Chewing tobacco, 75 per cent. ad valorem.

"Tumbeki," or Persian tobacco, 1s. 3d. c.p. per oke.

†Snuff, 100 per cent. ad valorem.

All other goods, except those admitted free, 8 per cent. on value at port of landing.

Free.

Anchors and chains, boats, coals, casks (empty), and sacks, fresh fish, gold, bullion, and specie,* ice, lime, machinery and agricultural implements, pitch and tar, printed books, resin, sponges taken by licensed boats, timber, hewn or rough sawn, barley, chopped straw, cotton seed, flour, fodder for cattle, oats, wheat, church furniture, drugs and medical appliances, stationery, silkworms' eggs, saw dust, uniforms of public officers, and professional robes of legal and judicial officers in the employment of Her Majesty's Government, bark, leather, and other belting to be used in the driving or working of machinery, vats and staves, or hoops for use in constructing casks or vats, and the following:—

(a) All goods imported for the Government of Cyprus to be used in the public service.

(b) All military stores imported by Her Majesty's War Department.

(c) All goods imported for the use of the High Commissioner.

* Value assessed by Customs Officers.

† Duty charged on full value at port of importation.
(d) All articles of military equipment imported by and for the use of any officer of Her Majesty's land forces.

(e) Goods and stores of every description supplied under contract with Her Majesty's War Department for the public use of Her Majesty's land forces.

Personal baggage, viz., wearing apparel, bed and table linen, and bedding.

The importation is prohibited of silver and copper coins, locust eggs, salt, except refined salt for table purposes, and of all vegetables dry or green except vegetables hermetically sealed in tin cases, and potatoes, all fresh fruits and flowers, and fruit trees coming from French, Turkish, Greek, Austrian, or Italian ports.

All exemptions formerly enjoyed by foreigners have been abolished, except that from the military exemption tax. The military exemption tax itself is now payable by Moslems and Christians alike. Certain titles on minor articles have been abolished, and also on grapes, carobs and silk cocoons; but on the two last named articles a 10 per cent. export duty, and on raisins exported a 12 per cent. duty have been imposed instead of fifte. All other export duties, and a fishing tax, have been abolished by the British Administration.

There is a military police force of about 700 men, mostly Moslems.

Archaeology.

Cyprus is remarkable for its medieval architectural remains, and the vast quantity of antiquities in the shape of coins, inscriptions, ornaments, statues, and pottery, which have been discovered. A famous collection of Cypriot antiquities, that of General di Cesnola, the late United States Consul, is in the Metropolitan Museum at New York. A local museum has been lately started by subscription.

Grant in Aid from Parliament.

| Year    | Amount |
|---------|--------|
| 1878-79 | £8,000* |
| 1880-81 | 20,000† |
| 1881-82 | 78,000‡ |
| 1882-83 | 90,000‡ |
| 1883-84 | 30,000‡ |
| 1884-85 | 15,000‡ |
| 1885-86 | 15,000‡ |

Besides the above a sum of 13,085l. was drawn in 1879-80 out of a vote of 26,000l. exclusively for the support of the "Cyprus Police Augmentation Force," the cost of which was a charge against Imperial funds.

General Local Revenue and Expenditure.

| Year    | Revenue | Expenditure |
|---------|---------|-------------|
| 1879-80 | £148,360 | £117,445     |
| 1880-81 | 156,095  | 119,416§     |
| 1881-82 | 163,732  | 157,672||     |
| 1882-83 | 189,334  | 120,635      |

* Granted for expenses of first installation and all expended prior to 31st March, 1879.

† Excluding the payment to the Porte for 1878-79, no final adjustment of the sums due was made till 1882, and the £188,000 shown as voted between 1880-81 and 1882-83 was on account of the deficit to 31st March, 1882. See Parliamentary Paper C. 3383, August, 1882.

‡ The years shown against these grants are the financial years in which the sums were voted by Parliament on account of the deficit of the year immediately preceding.

§ Includes £9,141 paid on account of the Pioneer Force prior to their absorption into the police.

|| The increased expenditure in this year was due to large payments being made on account of previous years. See Parliamentary Paper C. 3383 August, 1882.

1883-84. £194,051 £111,684
1884-85. 172,072 112,085

Sums payable to Turkey, £2,800l. a-year.

Imports and Exports.

| Year    | Imports | Exports |
|---------|---------|---------|
| 1878.   | £177,651 | £157,328 |
| 1879.   | 308,407  | 222,218 |
| 1880.   | 272,663  | 210,065 |
| 1881.   | 296,868  | 266,610 |
| 1882.   | 333,512  | 276,129 |
| 1883-84.| 344,183  | 290,210 |
| 1884-85.| 304,375  | 287,521 |

Executive Council.

The Officer for the time being second in Command of the Troops.

Chief Secretary, Col. F. G. E. Warren, R.A., C.M.G.
Queen's Advocate, W. R. Collyer.
Receiver-General, J. A. Swettenham.
Clerk, Captain H. M. Sinclair, R.E., 50l.

Legislative Council.

President, Sir R. Biddulph.
Non-Elective Members, Col. F. G. E. Warren, R.A., C.M.G.
W. R. Collyer.
J. A. Swettenham.
S. Brown, C.E.
Dr. F.C. Heidenstam, C.M.G.
Capt. S. C. N. Grant, R.E.

1st Electoral District.—Nicosia and Kyrenia.
Elected by the Mahometan Voters—
Keorogluhizade Hussein Ata Effendi.
Elected by the Non-Mahometan Voters—
Pascali Constantinides.
Evstathios Constantinides.
Yoannis Pavlides.

2nd Electoral District.—Famagusta and Larnaca.
Elected by the Mahometan Voters—
Mehemet Ali Fehim Effendi.
Elected by the Non-Mahometan Voters—
Cyprianos, Bishop of Kitium.
Zeno D. Pierides.
Theodoro M. Peristiani.

3rd Electoral District.—Limassol and Paphos.
Elected by the Mahometan Voters—
Ahmed Rashid Effendi.
Elected by the Non-Mahometan Voters—
George Malikides.
Demetrios Iantis Nicolaides.
Demetrios Pierides.

Clerk, Captain H. M. Sinclair, R.E., 100l.

List of Principal Officials.

High Commissioner, Sir H. E. Bulwer, G.C.M.G., 4,000l.
Private Secretary, Capt., 300l.
Aide-de-Camp,
Chief Secretary to Government, Col. F. G. E. Warren, R.A., C.M.G., 1,200l.
Assistant to Chief Secretary, G. Smith, 300l. to 400l.
1st Clerk, W. H. Bennett, 190l., and 50l. duty pay.
Translator of Turkish Documents, A. Utidjian, 300l.
Translator of Greek Documents, J. Pierides, 200l.
Assistant Translator of Turkish Documents, T. Moldovack, 150l.
Queen's Advocate, W. R. Collyer, 750l.
Receiver-General, J. A. Swettenham, 800l.
Auditor, H. C. Nicolle, 475l.
Island Treasurer, F. G. Glossop, 300l. to 360l.
Inspector of Revenue (vacant), 360l.
1st Clerk, Receiver-General's Office (vacant).
Chief Medical Officer, Dr. Heidenstam, C.M.G., 500l.
Director of Survey, Captain S. C. N. Grant, R.E., 600l. (100l. of which is personal).
Government Engineer, S. Brown, 800l.
Principal Forest Officer, Captain S. N. Grant, Director of Survey.
Inspector of Schools, The Rev. Josiah Spencer, 365l.
Postmaster, G. R. Hunter, 370l.

District Commissioners.
Commissioner, Nicosia, Merton King, 420l.
Commissioner, Larnaca, C. D. Cobham, 600l., quarters or allowance.
Commissioner, Limassol, Roland L. N. Michell, 600l., quarters or allowance.
Commissioner, Kyrenia, Captain E. R. Kenyon, R.E., 400l., and house.
Commissioner, Papho, H. L. Thompson, 500l., and 50l. house allowance.
Commissioner, Famagusta, A. H. Young, 540l., quarters or allowance.

Customs.
Chief Collector, W. T. Taylor, 500l.
Collector, Larnaca, Albert Morton, 250l. to 300l.

Police.
Chief Commandant and Inspector of Prisons, Lieut. J. H. Bor, R.M.A., 550l.
Local Commandant, Limassol, R. Fisher, 383l., and forage.
Ditto, Nicosia, L. Olive, 365l., and forage.
Local Commandant, Famagusta, Lord John Kennedy, 305l. 10s., and forage.
Ditto, Kyrenia, E. R. Kenyon, R.E. (paid as Commissioner).
Ditto, C. S. Cade, 305l. 10s., and forage.
Ditto Papho, C. W. Thompson, 305l. 10s., and forage.

Courts of Justice.
Supreme Court—
Chief Justice, Sir Elliot C. Bovill, Kt., 1,000l.
Puisne Judge, W. J. Smith, 750l.
District Courts—
Larnaca
President, C. G. Walpole, 600l.
Ordinary Judges, C. Cramby, 200l.
M. Hassan Hilmi, 200l.
Nicosia
President, M. B. Seager, 550l.
Ordinary Judges, Sophocles Lyssandrides, 216l.
Ahmet Izzet, 216l.
Limassol
President, J. P. Middleton, 500l.
Ordinary Judges, Demetrio Rossidi, 200l.
Hassan Hakki, 200l.
Famagusta
President, A. F. Law, 500l.
Ordinary Judge, C. Papadopoulos, 200l.
Mehemet Ata Bey, 200l.
Papho
President, W. Reith, 500l.
Ordinary Judges, C. Michaelides, 150l.
Hadji Kuffi, 150l.
Kyrenia
President, F. G. Tamplar, 450l.
Ordinary Judges, T. E. Mitzin, 150l.
Hussein Zeklayi, 150l.

Cyprus, Eboul Khair Effendi, 300l.

Nicosia District and Kyreina, Esseid Hussein Husni, 144l.
Famagusta and Larnaca, Ahmed Khouloussi, 120l.
Limassol and Papho, Esseid Abdur Rahman, 120l.

Consuls.
Greece, A. Ch. Anargyros.
Larnaca, Jean Caloutzis, Vice-Consul.
Limassol, Theodoros Macridi (agent), Papho.
Italy, Cav. Enrico Chicco.
Larnaca, George Glykys (agent).
Nicosia, Socrates Francondi (agent), Limassol.
Netherlands, Constantine Francoudi (agent), Limassol.
Norway and Sweden, Charles F. Watkins (Larnaca).
Austria-Hungary, Giuseppe Pascolini, Vice-Consul.
Larnaca, Joanni Palides, agent.
Nicosia, Constantine Francoudi (agent), Limassol.
France, Mons. E. de Castillon St. Victor.
Larnaca, George Acamas (agent), Limassol.
Germany, Giuseppe Pascolini (agent).
Larnaca, George Glykys (agent), Nicosia.

NEW GUINEA.

New Guinea, the largest island in the world if we exclude Australia, lies some 80 miles to the north of Queensland between 8° 25' and 10° 40' S. lat., and between 130° 50' and 150° 35' E. long. Its greatest length is 1,490 miles, and its maximum breadth 430 miles; its area being about 306,000 square miles.

The northern coast of the island is generally hilly, and the mountains stretch away from it inland, rising in some cases to a height of 17,000 or 18,000 feet. The south coast also, to the east of Torres Straits, presents similar features, and a great mountain range appears to stretch across the island approximately along the 4th parallel of latitude. To the west of Torres Straits the south coast is low and swampy, no hills being visible. Over a great part of the island dense forests appear to prevail, clothing the mountains to a height of several thousand feet with timber of enormous height, covered and matted together with a dense undergrowth of brushwood, ferns, and lycopodiums. The coco palm grows everywhere, and the sago palm abounds on the south coast, and its produce forms a considerable part of the exports of the island. Figs are also common, and ginger, cardamum, betel, pineapple, nutmeg, cotton, and other smaller growths are found.

The bulk of the population is of the pure Papuan type, of a sooty brown colour, medium height, and general appearance somewhat negroid. At various points of the coast however the intermixture of Polynesian and Malayan blood has modified the native Papuan physically and mentally, and the coast tribes as a rule are superior in resources and civilization to those of the interior. Some of the tribes in the north-west, in the Arfak mountains and elsewhere, are very degraded, and with barely the rudiments of social organization; and cannibalism and head-hunting are practised here and there throughout the island.

The whole island to the west of 141 E. long. is claimed by the Dutch as suzerains of the Sultan of Tidore, to whom the tribes along the coast have been accustomed to pay tribute. The acquisition of the remainder of the island by this country has long been advocated by Australian statesmen, and the growing influence of France and Germany
in the Pacific Ocean, coupled with the establishment of a penal settlement by the former in New Caledonia, created considerable alarm lest a country lying so near the shores of Australia should pass into the possession of a foreign power. The Government of Queensland determined to precipitate matters by formally annexing the country, and this was accordingly done by Mr. Chester, the magistrate of Thursday Island, on the 4th of April, 1883. This proceeding was not adopted or ratified by the Imperial Government, and consequently fell to the ground; but the Australian colonies renewed their appeals to Her Majesty's Government to take possession of the island, and the Intercolonial Convention held at Sydney in November and December, 1883, passed resolutions urging the annexation of Eastern New Guinea, and undertaking to recommend to their respective legislatures to provide for defraying, in proportion to population, a part of the cost of maintaining the protectorate. Upon this the Imperial Government decided that if one or more of the colonies would guarantee £15,000l. for the year ending 1st June, 1885, they would appoint a high commissioner for the south-eastern part of New Guinea, and take steps for establishing his jurisdiction. The various colonies readily agreed to contribute their quota of the sum required, and on the 6th November, 1884, Commodore Erskine, in H.M.S. "Nelson," hoisted the British flag at Port Moresby, and proclaimed a protectorate over the south coast from 141° E. long. and the adjacent islands.

Special Commissioner for New Guinea, John Douglas, C.M.G., 2,500l.
Private Secretary (vacant).
Deputy Commissioner, Hugh Romilly, 200l.

WESTERN PACIFIC.

High Commission.

The office of High Commissioner in, over, and for the Western Pacific Islands, was created by an Order in Council, cited as the Western Pacific Order in Council of 1877, for the purpose of better carrying out the provisions of the Pacific Islanders' Protection Acts, 1872 and 1875, and to provide a Civil Court for the settlement of disputes between British subjects living in these Islands.

The jurisdiction of the High Commissioner extends over all islands in the Western Pacific not being within the limits of the Colonies of Fiji, Queensland, or New South Wales, and not being within the jurisdiction of any civilised power, and includes that part of New Guinea which is eastward of the 143rd meridian of longitude, New Britain, New Ireland, the Louisiade Archipelago, the Solomon Islands, the New Hebrides, the Tongan or Friendly Islands, the Samoan or Navigators' Islands, and the various small groups of Melanesia.

The Chief Justice of Fiji, and every other judge for the time being of the Supreme Court, is by virtue of his office a judicial commissioner, and where the attendance of the Chief Justice or other Judge of the Supreme Court is impracticable, the High Commissioner may appoint a Judicial Commissioner for particular purposes or for a particular time.

Deputy Commissioners are appointed by the High Commissioner on behalf of her Majesty.

The High Commissioner's Court consists of the High Commissioner, the Judicial Commissioners, and the Deputy Commissioners, and in it is vested all her Majesty's civil and criminal jurisdiction exercisable in the Western Pacific Islands.

The Court of a Judicial Commissioner has powers similar to those of the Superior Courts of England, and the Deputy Commissioners have jurisdiction civil and criminal analogous to that of Stipendiary Magistrates and Judges of County Courts with certain limited powers in respect of probate and letters of administration.

With some few exceptions all decisions of Deputy Commissioners may be appealed against to the Supreme Court of Fiji.

For the purpose of better carrying out the provisions of the Pacific Islanders' Protection Acts, 1872 and 1875, and in order to deal with cases occurring where there is no resident Deputy Commissioner, certain officers in command of her Majesty's ships of war on the Australian station have been appointed Deputy Commissioners.

In addition to the other means of preserving order the High Commissioner has certain special powers for the deportation of persons whose proceedings endanger the peace of the Islands.

The first High Commissioner was the Hon. Sir A. H. Gordon, lately Governor of Fiji, and now Governor of Ceylon.

Establishment.

High Commissioner (vacant).
Assistant High Commissioner, J. B. Thurston, C.M.G.
Chief Judicial Commissioner, Fielding Clarke, 300l. (in addition to salary as Chief Justice of Fiji).
Registrar, J. Langford Irvine, 50l. (in addition to Fiji salary).
Secretary to High Commission and Clerk in Charge of Accounts, W. Collet, 400l.
Deputy Commissioner in Tonga, H. F. Symonds, 500l. (in addition to fees as Vice Consul).
Deputy Commissioner in Samoa, 100l., and 450l. as Vice-Consul.
Deputy Commissioner for the Western Pacific, H. H. Rondly, 500l.

OTHER MISCELLANEOUS POSSESSIONS.

ADEN.

The peninsula of Aden is situated in lat. 12° 47' N. and long. 45° 10' E., about 100 miles east of the Straits of Bab el Mandeb, on the Arabian coast. Besides the peninsula a strip of territory stretching about three miles inland belongs to England. The whole area being about seventy square miles. The town of Aden is situated on the side of a rocky promontory, and is very strongly fortified. It is a most important coaling station, and also an entrepôt for the trade with Arabia. The imports in 1883 amounted to 2,014,580l., and the exports to 1,444,890l. The exports consist of coffee, dyes, feathers, gums, spices, &c. The settlement is subject to the government of Bombay, being presided over by a president, who is also commander of the troops in the garrison. (For further information see publications relating to India).

Perim, an island situated at the entrance of the Red Sea, is a dependency of Aden, and in consideration of an undertaking not to cede to any other Power than Great Britain Socotra, an island situated about 150 miles E.N.E. of Cape Guardafui, and lying in the direct route to India,
the government of Aden pays a small subsidy to the Sultan of Keshin, to whom it belongs. The area of the island is about 3,000 square miles.

ASCENSION.

The island of Ascension, lying in the South Atlantic, lat. 70° 57' S. and long. 14° 21' W., is under the supervision of the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty, who maintain a small naval station there. It is frequented by whalers engaged in the antarctic fishing, and is famous for its turtles, large numbers of which are caught annually.

NIGER.

The protectorate over the Niger Delta, stretching from the Rio del Rey to the Benin River, was assumed in July, 1881, treaties of protection with all the principal chiefs being made by Consul Hewett. A number of vice-consuls have been appointed to assist Mr. Hewett in controlling the protectorate. The enormous trade of the district is almost entirely in the hands of the National African Company, of which Lord Aberdare is chairman.

PONDOLAND.

Pondoland has been under protection since 1844, when Sir Peregrine Maitland entered into a treaty with Faku, then paramount chief. In 1878 Sir Bartle Frere, as High Commissioner, intervened in the affairs of Pondoland, deposing Umgikela from the position of paramount chief, and placing half the tribe under the independent rule of Unquiliso. He renewed the declaration of protectorate, and annexed the St. John's River Mouth, which has since been incorporated with the Cape Colony. The existence of the British protectorate over Pondoland was recently notified anew in the Cape Gazette. (See further as to Pondoland under "Cape Colony," ante, Part II.)

TRISTAN D'ACUNHA.

Tristan d'Acunha is the principal of a group of islands lying in lat. 37° 6' S. and long. 12° 2' W. It was taken possession of by a military force during the residence of Napoleon at St. Helena. Upon his death the garrison was withdrawn with the exception of three men, who, with certain shipwrecked sailors, became the founders of the present settlement. For a long time only one of the settlers had a wife, but subsequently the others contracted with a sea captain to bring them wives from St. Helena. The population has since increased to about a hundred, and remains practically stationary, as the younger and more ambitious settlers migrate in batches to the Cape. The inhabitants practically enjoy their possessions in common, and there is no strong drink on the island, consequently there are no quarrels and no crime. It was at one time proposed to give them laws and a regular government, but this was found unnecessary for the above reasons, and they remain under the moral rule of their oldest inhabitant, Governor Green, successor to Governor Glass, Corporal in the Royal Artillery, and founder of the settlement. The islands are within the diocese of Cape Town, and a chaplain is maintained there by the S. P. G. The inhabitants are spoken of as long-lived, healthy, moral, religious, and hospitable to strangers. They have recently been entrusted with a life boat by the Board of Trade, and a code of signals.
PART III.

EMIGRATION.

The following notice is printed as being of general interest.—Ed. C. O. List.

INFORMATION RESPECTING FREE AND ASSISTED PASSAGES TO THE COLONIES.

Colonial Office, Downing Street, S.W., October, 1885.

The Colonies which promote immigration from the United Kingdom by means of their public funds are New South Wales, South Australia, Queensland, Tasmania, Western Australia, New Zealand, the Cape of Good Hope, Natal, and Canada.
