Colony: Gambia
Year: 1921
Section: Means of Communication.
Type: narrative
---
Means of Communication.

Communication between the Colony and Europe is effected by the steamers of the African Steamship Co. (Messrs. Elder Dempster & Co.), which nominally run fortnightly between Liverpool and Bathurst. Steamers of the Messageries Maritimes sail to and from Bordeaux and Dakar fortnightly, and Dakar being only 90 miles from Bathurst, passengers often join these steamers there, and get to Europe in eight days.

Internal communication is comparatively easy for West Africa, most of the important firms having steamers or launches which make frequent trips during the trading season up the river; these vessels are ready to accept any passengers or freight which may offer.

Telegraph cables place Bathurst in communication with Europe and West Africa. The Admiralty erected a wireless station in the first half of the year 1915, at Cape St. Mary. There are no railways, internal telegraphs, or metalled roads, save one from Bathurst to Cape St. Mary, 7½ miles across the Oyster Creek Bridge, which connects the island of St. Mary with the mainland of British Kombo. A wireless telegraph and telephone service between Bathurst and Georgetown (McCarthy Island) will be inaugurated shortly. Horse will live, and the river forms an unrivalled highway for 300 miles. The roads (unmade) in the Protectorate are kept clear, and light traps or bicycles could pass along in those districts which are free from swamps.

A few motor cars are in use in and around Bathurst.

The rules of the Postal Union have been adopted by the Colony and its Protectorate.

The following are the rates of postage:

| Letters | Newspapers |
|---------|-----------|
| Internal, 1d. per 2 ozs. or fraction thereof. | ½d. per 2 ozs. or fraction thereof. |
| United Kingdom, British Possessions generally, Egypt, British Postal Agencies in Morocco, Wei-hai-wei, and on letters addressed to His Majesty's Ships of War, wherever situated. | Letters, 1d. per oz. or fraction thereof. Books, ½d. per 2 ozs. |
| Other Countries—Letters, 2½d. for the first 1 oz., and 1½d. for each succeeding oz. or fraction thereof. | Books, ½d. per 2 ozs. or fraction thereof. |

Parcels Post. If posted at places within the Colony and Protectorate for delivery therein.

For every pound or fraction thereof, 3d.

If addressed to the United Kingdom or British Colonies in West Africa:

Not over 3 lbs. in weight, 1s.

Over 3 lbs., but not over 7 lbs., 2s.

Over 7 lbs., but not over 11 lbs., 3s.

There is no direct parcel post scheme at present with foreign countries. All parcels are forwarded through the medium of the General Post Office, London, a small additional charge being made for onward transmission.
The Revenue for the Post Office is derived from the sale of stamps, poundage on Money and Postal Orders and the rent from private boxes, &c.
