Colony: Gambia
Year: 1953
Section: The Executive Council of the Colony
Type: narrative
---
The Executive Council of the Colony consists of the Colonial Secretary as an ex-officio member and such other persons as may from time to time be appointed; since the Council was reconstituted in November 1951, the appointed members include five officials and four unofficials of whom one is nominated from the Protectorate. The Governor is the President of the Council and he may, on any special occasion when he desires the opinion of any person within the Colony, summon such person as an Extraordinary Member.

Under the Gambia (Legislative Council) Order in Council, as amended to 29th June 1951, the Legislative Council consists of the Governor as President, a Vice-President, who is an unofficial member, three ex-officio members (the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney-General and the Financial Secretary), four nominated official members, five nominated unofficial members—four representing the Protectorate and one representing Trade and Commerce—two elected members representing the town of Bathurst and one elected member representing the Kombo St. Mary Division. There is thus an unofficial majority on the newly constituted Council as there was on the Council which was dissolved in 1951.

The Gambia Protectorate Order in Council, 1946, provides that the Executive Council for the Colony shall also be the Executive Council for the Protectorate.

Individual ownership of land is recognized in the Colony and there is no restriction on the acquisition of land by non-natives. Freehold interests in Crown lands are not disposed of except in special circumstances and with the sanction of the Secretary of State. A grant of Crown lands for a term of years may be made by the Governor. The normal term is 21 years with an option of renewal for a like term.
Land in the Protectorate is held on native customary tenure from the Native Authority for the district in which it is vested. In general, land may not be alienated or leased to non-natives without the consent of the Governor. Except in a few cases, non-native occupation of land is confined to leases for not more than 21 years. Leases of small plots suitable for commercial or industrial purposes may be obtained from the Native Authority for the district, with the approval of the Governor. The power to approve is delegated to the Senior Commissioner.
