Colony: Gambia
Year: 1960
Section: Constitution
Type: narrative
---
Constitution

Following recommendations approved by the Secretary of State in 1953 a new constitution for the Colony and Protectorate of the Gambia was introduced in September 1954.

Under the Gambia (Constitution) Order in Council, 1954, the provisions of which apply both to the Colony and to the Protectorate, the Executive Council consists of four ex officio Members, one Official Member, and not less than six Appointed Members. The Executive Council thus has, for the first time, an unofficial majority. Of the Appointed Members, all of whom must be Elected or Nominated Unofficial Members of the Legislative Council, two have been appointed Ministers and assigned special responsibilities for:

(a) the submission to Executive Council of questions relating to matters within their respective portfolios,

(b) ensuring, in association with the appropriate public officer, that effect is given to decisions taken by the Governor in Executive Council relating to these matters, and

(c) conducting in the Legislative Council government business relating to matters within their respective portfolios.

The Governor attends and presides at meetings of the Executive Council: with certain specified exceptions the Governor is required to consult the Executive Council in the exercise of his powers, but may act in opposition to their advice if he deems it right so to do.

The Legislative Council consists of a Speaker, four ex officio Members, one Nominated Official Member, two Nominated Unofficial Members, and fourteen Elected Members of whom four are directly elected to represent Bathurst and Kombo St. Mary, seven are indirectly elected to represent the Protectorate, and the remaining three are indirectly elected from a panel of names submitted by the Bathurst and Kombo St. Mary municipal councils. Meetings of the Council are normally presided over by the Speaker, but the Governor retains the right to attend any meeting and preside thereat. The usual legislative powers of the Council are subject to the Governor's reserve powers to legislate by
declaration if he considers it expedient so to do in the interests of public order, public faith or good government.

In September 1959 the Secretary of State accepted certain proposals for constitutional change put forward by the Governor. The salient features of these proposals are the adoption of universal adult suffrage throughout the territory, the enlargement of the Legislature, and provision for the appointment of up to six Ministers with or without portfolio.
