Colony: Gambia
Year: 1886
Section: 150. Payment for entertainment in Her Majesty's ships is to be calculated according to the dates of the first and last dinner meals taken on board.
Type: narrative
---
150. Payment for entertainment in Her Majesty's ships is to be calculated according to the dates of the first and last dinner meals taken on board.

151. When Governors, Bishops,* or other Officers who may be entitled to conveyance at the expense of the Imperial Treasury, have to obtain passages in mail packets or private ships, it will be necessary that certified statements of the expenses and of the dates at which they were incurred should, without delay, be sent to the Colonial Office, supported by such vouchers as can be reasonably be procured. Evidence of the ordinary kind, as reference to a tariff (if any), or the certificate of two merchants, should, as a rule, be forwarded, that the rate of charge is usual or reasonable. The statements of other Officers than the Governor must bear his counter-signature of approval. The expenditure will be subject to review, and, if necessary, to disallowance, by the Secretary of State; and it will be desirable, though not indispensable, that his sanction should be obtained before Bills be drawn for the sums spent. Such Bills should be drawn on the Paymaster-General, at not less than ten days' sight and an immediate and direct advice should, in each case, be sent to the Secretary of State.

152. Any question that may arise in connection with passage allowances, &c., and may not have been provided for in the foregoing Regulations, will be separately considered and decided by the Secretary of State.

153. Whenever any person in this country shall be appointed to any Office, the salary and fees (if any) attached to which do not exceed £500 per annum, in a Colony not possessing a Representative Assembly,† the Crown Agents for the Colonies will secure and pay for his passage to the Colony, also those of his wife and children, not exceeding four persons besides himself. The person so appointed will be required to execute an "Agreement" in the form inserted in the Appendix (Page 340). See Circular 20th April, 1871.

154. No outfit is allowed on any occasion.

CHAPTER VI.

§ I. Precedency, Victoria Cross, Foreign Orders, Salutes, and Flags.

155. The precedence of Colonial Officers is in some cases determined by Colonial enactments or Royal Charters, by Instructions communicated either under the Royal Signet and Sign Manual through the Secretary of State, or by authoritative usage. In the absence of any such special authority, Governors are to guide themselves by the subjoined table.

156. Table of precedence of Colonial Officers.

The Governor, Lieutenant-Governor, or Officer administering the Government.

The Senior Officer in command of the Troops, if of the rank of a General, and the Officer in command of Her Majesty's Naval Forces on the Station, if of the rank of an Admiral, their own relative rank being determined by the Queen's Regulations on that subject.

The Bishop.

The Chief Justice.

The Senior Officer in command of the Troops, if of the rank of Colonel or Lieutenant-Colonel, and the Officer in command of Her Majesty's Naval Forces on the Station, if of equivalent rank their own relative rank being determined by the Queen's Regulations on that subject.

The Members of the Executive Council.

The President of the Legislative Council.

The Members of the Legislative Council.

The Speaker of the House of Assembly.

The Puisne Judges.

The Members of the House of Assembly.

The Colonial Secretary (not being in the Executive Council).

The Commissioners or Government Agents of Provinces or Districts.

The Attorney-General.

The Solicitor-General.

The Senior Officer in command of the Troops, if below the rank of Colonel or Lieutenant-Colonel, and the Senior Naval Officer of corresponding rank.

The Archdeacon.

The Treasurer, Paymaster-General, or Collector of Internal Revenue.

The Auditor-General or Inspector-General of Accounts.

The Commissioner of Crown Lands.

The Collector of Customs.

The Comptroller of Customs.

The Surveyor-General.

Clerk of the Executive Council.

Clerk of the Legislative Council.

Clerk of the House of Assembly.

157. In Courts for the trial of Piracy, the Members are to take rank according to the order in which they are designated in Her Majesty's Commission: except in the case of the Naval Commander-in-Chief.

* As to leave of Absence, Passages, and Pensions of Officers on West Coast of Africa, see Chapter XVIII.

† Medical Officers appointed to British Guiana are not allowed passage for their wives or families, and no passages are granted to the wives and families of European Officers proceeding to the West Coast of Africa.

‡ The table of precedence within the Dominion of Canada is given in Appendix 18, p. 351.

§ The Military and Naval Officers upon whom the command would devolve, in the absence of superior officers, will retain the precedence assigned to them by these Regulations, notwithstanding the presence of such superior officers.

Circular, 2nd August, 1884.)
RULES AND REGULATIONS.

138. Persons entitled to precedence in the United Kingdom or in Foreign Countries, are not entitled, as of a right, to the same precedence in the British Colonies; but in the absence of any special Instructions from the Queen, the precedence of such persons relatively to the above-mentioned Colonial Officers will be determined by the Governor, having regard to the social condition of the Colony under his Government.

139. The Queen's Warrants instituting "the Victoria Cross" and extending it to Local Forces in the Colonies, and the Queen's Regulations respecting Foreign Orders and Medals, are inserted in the Appendix (pages 340-43). The Regulations relating to Salutes are contained in the Chapter of "The Queen's Regulations and the Admiralty Instructions for the Government of Her Majesty's Naval Service" which is supplied to every Governor. (See Circular 16th January, 1873, as to the relative position of Naval and Military Officers when taking part in ceremonies on shore. See Circular 30th August, 1873, as to the position to be assigned to a Naval Officer when sitting as a Member of a Court of Enquiry into the circumstances attending the loss of a merchant ship. See Circular of 24th October, 1879, as to precedence of ex-Members of Executive Council who have been allowed to retain to the title of Honourable within the Colony.)

A Colonial Governor absent from his Colony on leave, or otherwise than on a Special Mission expressly authorised by Her Majesty's Government, is not entitled to any salute, or to fly any flag, as these attributes are only allowable when he is actually representing the Sovereign. A Governor so absent should promptly decline all salutes or other official recognitions of a Royal character from any Foreign Ship or Troops; but he should avail himself of any offer made to him to be received on board, or to be conveyed by Her Majesty's ships or boats; though he cannot demand this attention. (Enclosed in Circular, 28th September, 1879.)

(1.) Whenever a requisition is received by any Officer in command of one of Her Majesty's ships, for the embarkation or conveyance of a Governor, High Commissioner, Lieutenant-Governor, or Officer administering the Government of a Colony, the Senior Officer present may direct the special Flag of such official personage to be hoisted at the foretop-gallant masthead of the ship in which he is embarked; provided that he, after consultation with, and on requisition from that official, considers it for the benefit of the service about to be performed that such Flag should be hoisted, and provided that it is only hoisted or carried within the limits of his Government or High Commission in which he would be entitled to be saluted under Article 18, page 4, of the Queen's Regulations and Admiralty Instructions, 1879.

(2.) If the Senior Officer considers it in any circumstances undesirable to hoist the Flag, he is to inform the Governor, High Commissioner, &c., of his reasons, and at once report the same to the Admiralty.

(3.) In the event of a Governor, High Commissioner, &c., of a Colony being detached on a Foreign Mission in his official capacity as Governor or High Commissioner, special instructions will be issued in each case as to the Flag which should be carried by a man-of-war in which he may be embarked; in the absence of which the Senior Officer present is to exercise his discretion in consultation with the official proceeding on the mission. (See Circular, 19 April, 1880.)
