Colony: Gambia
Year: 1961
Section: Education
Type: narrative
---
Education

Primary education in the urban area of Bathurst is mainly a Government responsibility; total enrolment of 3,439 pupils; eight of these, formerly Mission Schools, were taken over by Government under the Local Agreement of 1945 and are now administered by Management Committees on which the former religious authority, Anglican, Methodist, Roman Catholic or Muslim, is represented. There are in addition two private schools (enrolment 318 pupils) run by the Methodist and Roman Catholic Missions respectively as preparatory and Kindergarten schools, at which higher fees are charged.

In the rural area of the Colony there are Government primary schools at Bakau and Serekunda, and a grant-aided Roman Catholic Mission school at Kanifing; the total enrolment in these schools is 953 pupils.

There are 41 village primary schools in the Protectorate with 2,861 pupils; 28 of the schools are owned by the District Authorities and staffed mainly by Government teachers. The remainder are Mission schools (12 Roman Catholic, one Anglican); the salaries of qualified teachers in these schools are reimbursed by Government.

Secondary education is concentrated mainly in Bathurst where there are three schools. The Gambia High School, opened in 1959, is a mixed school which absorbed the former Methodist Boys' and Girls' High Schools and the Bathurst School of Science. It is an independent non-denominational school administered by a Board of Governors: new school buildings are in course of construction and a Science block has been completed. The Roman Catholic Boys' and Girls' Schools continue as separate schools. Total enrolment in these schools is 382 boys and 233 girls: about 50 pupils are presented for the West African School Certificate each year. The new Government post-primary school at Crab Island has 541 pupils including 120 girls; there is a three-year course which it is hoped to extend to four years.

Armitage School, at Georgetown in MacCarthy Island Division, is a post-primary boarding school for Protectorate boys; it had 104 pupils in 1960. Work has now been completed on new buildings for the school, making possible an increased intake of 60 pupils a year, and an enrolment of 240 pupils.

Yundum College, 15 miles from Bathurst, trains both men and women teachers for Government and the Mission schools: there is a three-year course, reduced to two years for students who have completed their secondary schooling. There were 70 students in 1960, and plans are in hand to enlarge the College to 130 students.

The Technical School in Bathurst provides artisan training for 30 carpenters, who spend three years at the school and a further two years in in-service training with the Public Works Department. Additional workshops for metalwork have been provided and equipped from American funds, but it has not yet proved possible to recruit staff to start a course.

There are over 40 Gambians pursuing University courses overseas, either on Government Scholarships or Bursaries, and about 100 private students following a variety of courses. Most of these are in the United Kingdom.

Government expenditure (recurrent) on education in 1959 was £131,671 compared with £41,888 in 1949.
