Colony: Gambia
Year: 1956
Section: Education
Type: narrative
---
Education

Government is responsible for primary education in Bathurst; the schools have a religious grouping and are administered through Management Committees on each of which the appropriate religious authority is represented. These Government schools are eight in number and grouped thus:

One each—Anglican/Methodist Boys', Girls' and Infants' School;
One each—Roman Catholic Boys', Girls' and Infants' School;
One each—Mohammedan Boys' and Infants' School.

There are also a Government infant school, a Government school for over-age pupils and a grant-aided Mission school; the total number of children enrolled is 2,813. There is also a Domestic Science Centre for girls and an Arts and Crafts Centre for boys. Government schools have been opened at Bakau and Serekunda in the Colony; the rolls total 397 and there is a Mission school with a roll of about 273. There are four secondary Mission schools in Bathurst, two for boys and two for girls. The total number of pupils on the rolls of these schools, which are controlled by the Missions concerned but receive substantial grants from Government, is 307 boys and 170 girls.

The Methodist Girls' High School runs private kindergarten and preparatory departments attended by 150 children.

In the Protectorate there is a Government boarding school at Georgetown, the Armitage School, which gives secondary modern education up to Form V. Twenty-four village schools have been opened by District Authorities. They are staffed by Government teachers seconded to the Authorities.

The Missions run five primary schools in the Upper River Division, and two in MacCarthy Island Division. One of the schools in MacCarthy Island Division is run jointly with the District Authority.

There is a Teacher-training College at Yundum with 26 students. Twenty Gambians with Government scholarships and about 40 private students are in the United Kingdom.

Government expenditure on education was £93,085 in 1954 compared with £5,038 in 1935.
