Colony: Gambia
Year: 1914
Section: General Description.
Type: narrative
---

General Description.
The promontory forms one side of a bay, called the Bay of Gibraltar, which is about 4 or 5 miles across, and affords good anchorage for the shipping passing through the Straits. The eastern and northern faces of the Rock are an inaccessible precipice rising abruptly from the sea, and the sandy plain known as the North Front, which lies between Gibraltar and the Spanish town of La Línea; from the northern end the Rock runs along southward like a knife edge to the ancient site of O'Hara's Tower, from which it slopes gradually till it terminates in a perpendicular cliff about 100 feet high at the water's edge at Europa; these cliffs are continued along the western face to the New Mole, beyond which the fortress is protected by artificial ramparts. Behind these latter lies the larger portion of the town, covering an area of only ¾ by ¼ mile. It is one of the most thickly inhabited places in the world, but it is not unhealthy. Between this part of the town and the southern portion is a picturesque public garden, called the Alameda. The civil population in the southern part of the town is confined to the east and south-east of the New Mole, the remainder of the southern portion of the Rock being entirely taken up with barracks, hospitals, &c., for the Military and the Navy.

Gibraltar is extensively used as a port of call and coaling station by shipping, and it is also an entrepot of the trade between England and the Arabian states of Northern Africa, for which it has many advantages, having been ever since its occupation by the British a free port, or practically so.

The naval harbour is on the West side of the Rock. It has been completed recently, and is formed by three separate Moles known as the "North," "Detached" and "South" Moles. The North Mole runs westward from Devil's Tongue for about 2,900 feet, and then southward, giving a total length of over a mile. The South Mole projects into the sea for a distance of 3,660 feet in a north-westerly direction. The Detached Mole, 2,717 feet long, is so situated between these two Moles...
as to form a breakwater and leave two means of entrance and exit. The harbour contains a water area of 440 acres. There are three large graving docks for naval purposes, and a small dock which is available for merchant vessels of light draught.

A scheme for the provision of improved commercial facilities at Waterport has been approved and the works in connection with it are now in progress.

About 450 persons are employed in tobacco manufactories, and about 1,200 in the coal depots. It is a port of registry, having, on 31st December, 1912, 67 vessels, of together 7,152 tons (gross). No statistics of imports or exports are taken, except of wine, spirits, beer and tobacco.

The revenue is derived from port dues, the rent of the Crown estate in the town, duties upon wine, spirits, beer, and tobacco, and licence duties and fees.

There is no executive council nor any legislative body. The Governor, who is also the General commanding the garrison, exercises by himself all the functions of government and legislation. The management of the drainage, watersupply, &c., is in the hands of a nominated body, called the Sanitary Commissioners. Their receipts for 1912 were 59,852l., their expenditure 54,420l., and their debt, on the 31st of Dec., 1912, 159,843l. and pesetas 1,508,000.

There is a branch of the Anglo-Egyptian Bank, and several private bankers.

A Government savings bank was founded in 1882, and had on 31st Dec., 1912, 137,383, and pesetas 416,025l., deposited by 4,518 depositors. Since the 1st Oct., 1898, the legal tender currency has been that of the United Kingdom, and the public accounts are now kept in it, but Spanish money is still freely current. The change from Spanish currency, which had previously been the legal tender, was effected under the provisions of the Orders in Council of the 9th of August, 1898.

There is daily postal communication with England by way of Spain and France. Rates of postage: Letters, ld. per oz.; newspapers, ½d. The internal postage rate is ½d. per ½ oz. Also direct telegraphic communication with Spain, and by cables to Tangier, Malta, Lisbon, and Cadiz.

Education is not compulsory. There are thirteen elementary poor schools, subsidised by Government, and several private schools, the number of scholars on average attendance being 2,156 for the school year ending 31st March, 1913. The Government-aided schools are chiefly managed by boards of the different denominations, and small fees are charged.
