Colony: Gambia
Year: 1886
Section: § I. Mode in which Governors and Officers administering Colonial Governments (with certain exceptions in the West Indies and West Africa) are to conduct their Official Correspondence.
Type: narrative
---

165. Governors, or Officers administering Colonial Governments, must address the Secretary of State for the Colonial Department alone on all matters connected with their Government.

166. Every communication, therefore, to whatever Public Department in this Country it may more
RULES AND REGULATIONS.

Immediately relate, must in the first instance be addressed to the Secretary of State, with the exceptions hereafter mentioned; but in cases in which the Colonial Office is merely the channel of communication with other Departments, the matter to be reported may be embodied in a memorandum addressed to the Department concerned, and forwarded to the Secretary of State in a covering despatch.

167. The Governor's Despatches should be written in a large and distinct hand, with dark ink, on folio paper of uniform size; and an inner margin of about one-third of the page should be left.

168. They are to be numbered in succession, commencing annually with a fresh series, without interruption from changes in Her Majesty's Government.

169. Each despatch should be confined as much as possible to a single subject. The paragraphs of each despatch should be numbered, and if it consists of two or more sheets the pages should be numbered.

170. When any Colonial or Imperial law, or any previous letters or despatches, are referred to, they must be described by their numbers and dates, either in the body of the despatch or in the margin.

171. Each despatch must be docketed. The docket should specify the date and place of which the despatch was written, the name of the writer, and of the Secretary of State to whom it is addressed, the subject of the despatch, and the number of its enclosures.

172. Its enclosures should be noted in the margin, and reference made, in the body of the despatch to such portions of them as may require particular attention.

173. The enclosures must be copied separately on folio paper, corresponding in size with the despatch transmitting them, and must also be written in a large and distinct hand, with dark ink; the paragraphs of each enclosure should be numbered. If an enclosure should be a copy of a despatch or letter, it should be preceded by a heading designating the person by whom, the person to whom, it is written, and the date. If it be a copy of a petition or memorial, a similar descriptive heading should be prefixed.

174. Should the enclosures be in any foreign language, translations of them, as well as copies, are to be forwarded.

175. The enclosures are also to be pagéd consecutively through the whole series; but each enclosure should be separately numbered, and docketed like the despatch, and the docket should specify that the document is an "Enclosure in ——— despatch, No. ——— of ———."

176. If any printed documents are transmitted as enclosures, six copies of each should be sent, if they are easily to be procured. In case of newspapers or other printed documents, of which only a portion may require attention, the portion referred to should be cut out, and pasted on foolscap paper, with a note at the head of the date and title of the paper from which it is extracted, the five extra copies required being annexed in an appendix.*

177. Despatches forwarded to the Secretary of State should be accompanied by a schedule, and likewise with a statement of the numbers and dates of all despatches which the Governor may have received from the Secretary of State since the preceding occasion, in lieu of a separate acknowledgment of each despatch.† Duplicates of all important despatches, and of their principal enclosures, should be transmitted to the Secretary of State from the Cape of Good Hope, and all Colonies to the eastward thereof with which there is no telegraphic communication.

177A. With the view of facilitating the despatch of business, and of guarding against neglect or undue delay in the conduct of correspondence, the Governor of a Colony will send home by the first mail of every month,

(1.) A schedule of despatches received from the Secretary of State which have been more than a month in his hands without an answer.

(2.) A schedule of despatches sent by the Governor to the Secretary of State which appear to have remained unanswered for more than one month after having been received.

It should be stated in each case whether any inconvenience is occurring, or likely to occur, by delay in answering. (Enclosure to Circular, 26 October, 1880.)

178. All addresses or petitions to the Queen, on parchment, must be accompanied by a transcript on official paper. Protests by Legislative or Executive Councillors should be unfailingly sent home, and if questions respecting legislative proceedings are referred to the Secretary of State, the reference must always be accompanied by extracts from those proceedings.

179. Every Legislative Act must be accompanied by a statement from the Law Officer of the Crown to the effect that, in his opinion, the Royal Assent may properly be given thereto, or ought not to be, and also by a report from the Governor, or from the Law Officer, giving all requisite explanation respecting the object of the Act, the motive in which it originated, and any legal or political question which it may involve. Such a report should be sent separately with any Act of unusual importance. Other Acts may be transmitted in batches as they receive the Governor's assent.

180. For the due preparation of Drafts of Acts, special rules are laid down in the Governor's Instructions.

181. Every Act must be enrolled in the Chief Court of Justice in the Colony. For the practice of engrossing and enrolling Acts in this country, see the Appendix (Page 343).

182. In the month of January each year, or as soon after as may be practicable, a complete collection should be published, for general information, of all Acts or Ordinances enrolled during the preceding year, and six copies of such collection of Acts, &c., shall be sent home.

183. Whenever it may be found necessary to address the Secretary of State in a more unreserved manner than a Public Despatch would admit with propriety or convenience to the public interest, such

* See Circular, 12th March, 1884.

† Circular.

Sir,—It is required by the 177th Clause of the Colonial Regulations that duplicates of all important Despatches, and of their principal Enclosures should be transmitted to the Secretary of State from the Cape of Good Hope, and all Colonies to the eastward thereof with which there is no Telegraphic communication. The great and increasing facilities of Postal and Telegraphic communication render it unnecessary that this rule should be maintained, except in cases when the loss of a Despatch would be of such very serious public importance as that no means of security against its non-arrival should be neglected. In these cases the duplicate should still be sent by the following mail. A duplicate of the Schedule of Despatches sent by each mail should be sent by the next opportunity. You will issue the instructions necessary to give effect to these alterations in the existing rule.

I have the honour to be, Sir,

Your most obedient humble Servant,

Granville.

The Officer Administering the Government of
communication should be marked "Confidential;" but care must be taken that the regular series of Despatches shall contain a full account of all important transactions in the Colony, so that when Parliament may call for information as to any of those transactions a clear and connected view of what has taken place may be afforded by the numbered Despatches, without adding those which are "Confidential."

184. It will, however, rest with the Secretary of State in every case to decide whether such "Confidential" Despatches are or are not to be considered and recorded as public documents.

185. No allowance on account of travelling expenses will be made to any Officer or other person bringing Despatches to this Department, unless the intelligence transmitted be of such a nature as to appear to the Governor to justify the sending it by a special messenger.

186. Every Governor is enjoined to cause the Secretary of State's Despatches, addressed to himself, as well as copies of his own, addressed to the Secretary of State, whether "Confidential" or not, to be deposited in the Government House, if this has been the usual place of deposit for them, or in some other safe building belonging to the Government.

187. Governors are forbidden to withdraw any public document so deposited, on retiring from their Governments.

188. Governors are also forbidden to give copies of the Secretary of State's Despatches, or Instructions, or to allow them to be taken, unless under a general or special authority from the Secretary of State. But when Responsible Government is established the Governor is generally at liberty to communicate to his Advisers all Despatches not "Confidential." (By Circular of 10 July, 1871, Despatches are reclassified:—1. Numbered, which a Governor may publish unless directed not to do so. 2. Secret, which he may, if he thinks fit, communicate, under the obligation of secrecy, to his Executive Council, and may make public if he thinks it necessary. 3. Confidential, which are addressed to a Governor personally, and which he is forbidden to make known without express authority.)

§ II. Mode in which the Officers administering subordinate Governments are to conduct their Official Correspondence.