Colony: Gambia
Year: 1948
Section: COMMUNICATIONS
Type: narrative
---
COMMUNICATIONS

Services between the United Kingdom and the Gambia are maintained by Messrs. Elder-Dempster Lines, Ltd., the United Africa Company, Ltd., and John Holt & Company, Ltd.

The West African Airways Corporation provides a service which connects at Dakar with the trunk route between the United Kingdom and South America. Aircraft landing at Bathurst use the airfield at Yundum.

Bathurst has a first-class flying-boat base which was for long used by the British Overseas Airways Corporation transatlantic Boeing services but which is now out of use.

Internal communication is conducted chiefly by water-borne craft, the Gambia River forming an unrivalled highway for 300 miles. The Government maintains a service of river steamers which normally run weekly during the trading season and fortnightly or monthly at other times of the year.

Cable and Wireless, Limited, own and operate the cable station at Bathurst, whence submarine cables connect the Colony with West Africa and countries all over the world.

Bathurst wireless station, which has a range of approximately 1,000 miles, communicates with ships at sea and the important town of Dakar in the French Senegal. Wireless stations are also established at Kunta-ur, Georgetown and Basse, and a regular service is maintained between these inland towns and Bathurst.

A central battery telephone system is employed in the town of Bathurst, and in direct connection with Cape St. Mary. A telephone line between Kunta-ur, Georgetown and Bansang is under construction.

There are no railways. A laterite metalled road connects Bathurst with Cape St. Mary and Fajara on the coast about 10 miles from Bathurst, crossing Oyster Creek at Denton Bridge. At Mile Six a similar road leads by Kanifin to Brikama, 16½ miles. Another road goes from Kanifin to Sukuta, 3½ miles. The remainder of the road system consists of a secondary road on each bank of the river to Basse, with feeder roads to various wharf towns on the river. These secondary roads are usable in the dry season only.

Motor cars are used in Bathurst and its vicinity throughout the year and in parts of the Protectorate during the dry season.

There is no direct parcel post scheme at present with foreign countries. All parcels are forwarded through the medium of the General Post Office, London, a small additional charge being made for onward transmission.
