Colony: Gambia
Year: 1949
Section: CONSTITUTION
Type: narrative
---

Under the Royal Instructions dated 29th November, 1946, and 26th November, 1947, the Executive Council of the colony consists of the Colonial Secretary as an ex officio member and such other persons as may from time to time be appointed; at the present time the appointed members include four officials and three African unofficials. The Governor is the President of the Council, and he may on any special occasion when he desires the opinion of any person within the Colony summon such person as an Extraordinary Member. This provision precludes the possibility of a person resident within the Protectorate being summoned as an Extraordinary Member.

Under the Gambia (Legislative Council) Order in Council dated 29th November, 1946, as amended by a further Order in Council dated 26th November, 1947, the Legislative Council consists of the Governor as President, three ex officio members (the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney-General and the Financial Secretary), such number of nominated official and unofficial members as may from time to time be appointed and one elected member representing the town of Bathurst and the Kombo St. Mary Division. At least one of the nominated unofficial members must be appointed to represent the Protectorate. The present composition of the Legislative Council includes six nominated unofficial members and three nominated official members. There is, thus, an unofficial majority on the Council.

Under the Gambia Protectorate Order in Council dated 29th November, 1946, made under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act of 1890, it is provided that the Executive Council for the Colony shall also be the Executive Council of the Protectorate.

The Supreme Court of the Colony normally sits at Bathurst, but may sit in any part of the Colony. The High Court of the Protectorate exercises in the Protectorate the same jurisdiction as the Supreme Court exercises in the Colony. There is provision for trial by jury in the Colony, but provision is also made whereby the judge may sit with assessors in lieu of a jury. There is no provision for trial by jury in the Protectorate. The Colonial Magistrate exercises a limited civil and criminal jurisdiction in the Colony, and ranks as a first-class magistrate throughout the Protectorate. In the Protectorate, there is a Protectorate Court in every Division, the Commissioner in charge of the Division being a magistrate with first-class powers: provision is made whereby other suitable persons may be appointed magistrates with either first or second-class powers in the Protectorate. In Bathurst there is also the Mohammedan court presided over by the Cadi, which has jurisdiction to try cases, contentious or uncontentious, between or exclusively affecting Mohammedan natives, relating to civil status, marriage, succession, donations, testaments and guardianship.

In addition to these Courts there are throughout the Protectorate Native Tribunals established by warrant under the Native Tribunals Ordinance, 1933. These tribunals are of two grades, one having a greater jurisdiction than the other, but they correspond generally to the native courts or tribunals found in other Colonies and Protectorates. The Commissioner exercises a general power of revision, amounting in effect to appeal, over proceedings in Native Tribunals.

In all cases before all classes of Courts, local ideas and customs are taken into consideration whenever they are relevant to the issues.

LAND

The law relating to the tenure and management of lands in the Colony and Protectorate is contained in two ordinances enacted in 1945, the Colony Lands Ordinance and the Protectorate Lands Ordinance. The first is in effect a consolidating ordinance, and codifies the law as it has been for a long time.

There is a considerable amount of freehold land in the Colony: in addition there are a number of Crown leases, and the remainder of the land is occupied by the Crown. Generally, Crown leases are not granted for a greater period than 21 years in the first instance, and there is provision for revision of rent.

Prior to the enactment of the Protectorate Lands Ordinance, the Governor exercised over land in the Protectorate the same powers of disposition and management as he exercises over land in the Colony. The Protectorate Lands Ordinance, however, vests all Protectorate lands in the Native Authorities, to be held and administered for the common benefit, direct or indirect, of the communities concerned. The Ordinance makes strict provisions for the occupation of land by non-indigenes: no non-indigenes may acquire a greater interest than a lease for 21 years in the first instance, and provision is made for rent revision. No Protectorate land may in any circumstances whatsoever be permanently alienated, not even to the Gambia Government. All revenues derived from lands in the Protectorate
form part of the revenue of the Native Authorities concerned; all leases held from the Crown at the time of the coming into operation of the ordinance were automatically transferred to the appropriate Native Authorities as lessors.

**ADMINISTRATION**