Colony: Gambia
Year: 1950
Section: COMMUNICATIONS
Type: narrative
---
COMMUNICATIONS

Ocean services between the United Kingdom and the Gambia are maintained by Messrs. Elder Dempster Lines, Ltd., and the United Africa Company, Ltd.

The West African Airways Corporation and Air France (the latter during the dry season) provide services which connect northwards at Dakar with the trunk routes between the United Kingdom, Europe and South America; and southwards with Sierra Leone, Liberia, Ivory Coast, Gold Coast, Nigeria, Portuguese and French Guinea.
The airfield is at Yundum, distant 17 miles from Bathurst.

Bathurst has a first-class flying-boat base which was used by the British Overseas Airways Corporation transatlantic Boeing services but which is not now in regular use.

Internal communication is chiefly by river. The Gambia River is navigable for ocean-going ships for 180 miles and by river vessels for 300 miles. The Government operates a service of river vessels which normally run weekly during the trading season and fortnightly or monthly at other times of the year.

Cable and Wireless, Ltd. operates a station at Bathurst. Communication with the rest of the world and a Radio Telephone Service with the United Kingdom, most countries of Europe and British West Africa are maintained.

Bathurst wireless station, which has a range of approximately 1,000 miles, communicates with ships at sea and the important town of Dakar in the French Senegal. Wireless stations are established at Kuntaur, Georgetown, Mansa-Konko and Basse, and a regular service is maintained between these inland towns and Bathurst.

A central battery telephone system is employed in the town of Bathurst with lines to Cape St. Mary, Fajara, Yundum and Brikama. A tele-

phone line between Kuntaur, Georgetown and Bansang is in operation.

There are no railways. A tarred road connects Bathurst with Cape St. Mary and Fajara on the coast about 10 miles distant, crossing Oyster Creek at Denton Bridge. At Mile Six a tarred road leads by Kanifing to Brikama, 16½ miles, other roads go from Kanifing to Sukuta, 3½ miles, and from Kanifing to Fajara. For the most part the remainder of the road system consists of secondary roads on each bank of the river to Basse with feeder roads to various wharf towns on the river. These secondary roads are usable only with difficulty during the rain season; a gravelled road is maintained from Barra on North Bank opposite Bathurst to French frontier post at Karrang and thence to Daker. A new Trans-Gambia road has been opened from the French frontier north of Farrafeni to Ballingho and on the south bank and from the new wharf at Yellitenda to French frontier at Messera. Powered car ferries are in operation at Bathurst–Barra, Ballingho–Yellitenda and Kerewan.

Motor cars are used in Bathurst and its vicinity throughout the year and in the Protectorate.

There is no direct parcel post scheme at present with foreign countries. All parcels are forwarded through the medium of the General Post Office, London, a small additional charge being made for onward transmission.
