Colony: Gambia
Year: 1886
Section: § II. Mode in which the Officers administering subordinate Governments are to conduct their Official Correspondence.
Type: narrative
---

189. The Colonies of Barbados,† St. Vincent, Grenada, Tobago, and St. Lucia, are consolidated into one General Government, called the Government of the Windward Islands; the Colonies of Antigua, Montserrat, St. Christopher, Nevis, the Virgin Islands, and Dominica, into a second, called the Government of the Leeward Islands; and the Settlements of Sierra Leone, Gambia, the Gold Coast, and Lagos into a third, called the Government of the West Africa Settlements. The Officers administering the subordinate Governments are, in the West Indies, called Lieutenant-Governors or Presidents, in the West Africa Settlements, Administrators.

190. The correspondence of the Governors-in-Chief with the Secretary of State must be conducted in the mode which has been established by the preceding Regulations; but they will take care to keep the series of Despatches, relating to each Colony within their respective Commands, detached and separate from the rest.

191. During the absence of the Governor-in-Chief from any Island or Settlement comprised within his Command, the Officer administering the Government of that Island or Settlement should correspond with him on all subjects connected with this Office, and should transmit to him all Official Reports and information touching the same, and should apply to him for all such instructions as he may require for his guidance in the discharge of his duties.

192. If, during the absence of the Governor-in-Chief from any subordinate Government within the limits of his Command, exigencies should arise, in which it may be necessary that immediate instructions should be obtained from the Secretary of State, the Officer administering a subordinate Government is authorised to apply to the Secretary of State direct for instructions in relation thereto, if by so doing the Secretary of State can receive his Despatch at an earlier date than would be practicable through the intervention of the Governor-in-Chief.

193. Every such Officer will be required to transmit by the earliest opportunity to the Governor-in-Chief, or Officer administering the General Government, a copy of every Despatch or communication which he may, under this permission, address direct to the Secretary of State.

194. The Secretary of State will communicate his answer to any such Despatch, as may be most expedient, either to the Governor-in-Chief or direct to the Officer from whom he may have received it transmitting in the latter case a copy of the answer to the Governor-in-Chief.

