Colony: Gambia
Year: 1965
Section: Education
Type: narrative
---
Education



Education policy provides for a six-year basic primary course, after which about half the pupils are selected by examination either for a Secondary Grammar course leading to School Certificate or a Secondary Modern course of four years.



Primary education.—There were 10,517 pupils attending primary schools in Gambia in 1963/64. In Bathurst there are ten schools run by Government. Eight are former Mission schools, taken over by Government under a Local Agreement of 1945, and are administered by Management

Committees on which the former religious authority is represented. There are also a Catholic school with senior primary classes and two preparatory and Kindergarten schools, one Catholic and one Methodist.



In the suburban areas there are two Government and one Catholic primary schools.



In the rural areas there were fifty-four schools in the 1963/64 year, of which 16 are Mission schools. The remainder, formerly owned by District Authorities, are now Government institutions.



Secondary Modern education is provided at Crab Island School in Bathurst and at Latrikunda in the suburban area. Enrolment is 1,257.



Secondary Grammar education is concentrated in Bathurst, where there are three schools. The Gambia High School, opened in 1959, is a mixed school which absorbed the former Methodist High Schools and the Bathurst School of Science. It is an independent non-denominational school administered by its own Board of Governors. Education is given up to the Advanced Level of the General Certificate of Education. The Catholic Boys’ and Girls’ Secondary Schools continue to operate separately. Total enrolment in 1963/64 was 741, and 91 pupils presented themselves for the West African School Certificate. Armitage School at Georgetown provides post-primary boarding education for boys and girls. It is to be raised to full secondary grammar standard in 1964/65 with some 300 pupils.



Vocational Education is provided in the Technical Trade School at Bathurst, training carpenters and metal workers, and in the Government Clerical classes, which it is planned to expand into a commercial school.



Yundum Teacher’s Training College provides a three-year course for 150 students, preparing for posts as teachers in Government and Mission schools.



Scholarships.—During 1962–63 37 students held Government scholarships at Universities—19 in the United Kingdom or Ireland and 18 at the University College of Sierra Leone at Fourah Bay. There were also thirteen students at Universities or higher technical courses in the United Kingdom with the assistance of bursaries valued at £200 per year. One student was admitted to a United States University under the “ASPAU” scheme and one to Fourah Bay under United States “AID”.



Eight students completed degree courses during 1963 and eight new scholarships were awarded.



Expenditure.—Government recurrent expenditure on education in the 1964 estimates was £269,000, representing about 10% of total recurrent expenditure, plus £31,000 under Development Fund.


