Colony: Gambia
Year: 1914
Section: Means of Communication.
Type: narrative
---
**Means of Communication.**

Communication between the Colony and Europe is effected by the steamers of the African Steamship Co. (Messrs. Elder Dempster & Co.), which nominally run fortnightly between Liverpool and Bathurst, and those of the Woerman Line from Hamburg, which communicate with the Colony once each month; these latter steamers however do not call on the homeward passage, but proceed direct to Europe from Sierra Leone. Steamers of the Messagerie Maritime sail to and from Bordeaux and Dakar fortnightly, and Dakar being only 90 miles from Bathurst, passengers often join these steamers there, and get to Europe in eight days. There are also the steamers of the Company Belge Maritime de Congo which run between Antwerp and Matadi, calling at Dakar once every three weeks and taking and landing passengers at Southampton.

The cost of the passage by this latter line and the vessels of Messrs. Elder Dempster & Co., is 22l. first class, and 15l., 13s. 6d. second. The cost of a passage by the Messagerie Maritime Line varies from 22l. to 25l. according to cabin.

Internal communication is comparatively easy for West Africa, most of the important firms having steamers or launches which make frequent trips during the trading season up the river; these vessels are ready to accept any passengers or freight which may offer. The cost of a passage to MacCarthy’s Island, 158 miles from Bathurst, is 1l. 5s. first class, and 12s. deck.

Telegraph cables place Bathurst in communication with Europe and West Africa. There are no railways, internal telegraphs, or metalled...
roads, save one from Bathurst to Cape St. Mary, 7½ miles across the Oyster Creek Bridge, which connects the island of St. Mary with the mainland of British Kombo. Horses will live, and the river forms an unrivalled highway for 300 miles. The roads (unmade) in the Protectorate are kept clear, and light traps or bicycles could pass along in those districts which are free from swamps.

The rules of the Postal Union have been adopted by the Colony and its Protectorate.

The following are the rates of postage:

For each letter posted in the Colony for delivery therein or the Protectorate, 1d. per 2 oz. in weight.

For each letter addressed to any place in the United Kingdom, British Colonies, or Foreign Countries which have accepted the penny postage, 1d. per oz. or fraction thereof.

To other foreign countries 2½d. per oz. or part thereof.

Parcels Post. If posted at places within the Colony and Protectorate for delivery therein.

For every pound or fraction thereof, 3d.

If addressed to the United Kingdom or British Colonies in West Africa:

Not over 3 lbs. in weight, 1s.

Over 3 lbs., but not over 7 lbs., 2s.

Over 7 lbs., but not over 11 lbs., 3s.

There is no direct parcel post scheme at present with foreign countries. All parcels are forwarded through the medium of the General Post Office, London, a small additional charge being made for onward transmission.

The Revenue for the Post Office is derived from the sale of stamps, poundage on Money and Postal Orders and the rent from private boxes, &c.
