Colony: Gambia
Year: 1910
Section: The Provinces are as follows:—North Bank Province, with the districts of Lower Niumi, Upper Niumi, Jokado, Lower Baddibu, Upper Baddibu, Sabach and Sanigall, 110 miles in length. McCarthy Province, with the districts of Lower Niani, Upper Niani, Lower Saloum, Eastern Saloum, Nianja, 85 miles in length. Upper River Province, with the districts of Sandu and Wuli on the North bank, and Kantora, Fulladu East, Gambisara and Fulladu West on the south bank of the river, 150 miles in length. South Bank Province, with the districts of Eastern Nianiana, Western Nianiana, Central Jarra, Eastern Jarra, Western Jarra, East Central Kiang and Eastern Kiang, 70 miles in length. Komombo and Fogni Province, with the districts of Western Kiang, Fogni, Karenai, Fogni East, Kansalla and Bondalli, Fogni West, Vintang and Bruffutt, Komombos East, Central, South, North, and Komombo St. Mary, 85 miles in length.
Type: narrative
---
The Provinces are as follows:—North Bank Province, with the districts of Lower Niumi, Upper Niumi, Jokado, Lower Baddibu, Upper Baddibu, Sabach and Sanigall, 110 miles in length. McCarthy Province, with the districts of Lower Niani, Upper Niani, Lower Saloum, Eastern Saloum, Nianja, 85 miles in length. Upper River Province, with the districts of Sandu and Wuli on the North bank, and Kantora, Fulladu East, Gambisara and Fulladu West on the south bank of the river, 150 miles in length. South Bank Province, with the districts of Eastern Nianiana, Western Nianiana, Central Jarra, Eastern Jarra, Western Jarra, East Central Kiang and Eastern Kiang, 70 miles in length. Komombo and Fogni Province, with the districts of Western Kiang, Fogni, Karenai, Fogni East, Kansalla and Bondalli, Fogni West, Vintang and Bruffutt, Komombos East, Central, South, North, and Komombo St. Mary, 85 miles in length.

In 1900 further trouble arose between the Marabouts and Sonninkees respectively, of the towns of Sankandi and Battelling, over the ownership of some rice fields. Two travelling Commissioners, Mr. Sitwell and Mr. Silva, with an escort of a sergeant of police and ten constables, proceeded to Sankandi with the object of settling the trouble; but unfortunately, owing to the treachery of the Headman, Dari Bana Dabu, both the Commissioners, the sergeant and five constables were foully murdered.

On the arrival of Sir George Denton in 1901, it was decided to send a punitive expedition against these people, and Colonel H. E. Brake was selected to command. After a short resistance the participators in the revolt were crushed and their town destroyed. Certain of the ringleaders of the trouble fled and joined Fodi Kabba at Medina. Concerted action with the French Government of Senegal was taken however, and on the 23rd March, 1901, Medina was demolished and Fodi Kabba killed. Three other ringleaders were subsequently captured by the French, handed over to the British Government, tried and sentenced to death in the Supreme Court, and executed at Dumbute, a large village near the scene of the murder of the two Commissioners.
