Colony: Gambia
Year: 1962
Section: Communications
Type: narrative
---

The international aerodrome is at Yundum, 17 miles from Bathurst. The Director of Public Works is also the controller of Civil Aviation and the airport control services are run on behalf of Government by International Aeradio Limited. The Public Works Department maintains runways, buildings and water supplies; mains and standby generator being the responsibility of the Electricity Department. Meteorological services are provided by a branch of the West African Meteorological Service. Scheduled return flights between Accra and Dakar calling at Ibadan, Robertsfield, Freetown and Bathurst are run by W.A.A.C. (Nigeria) once a week and Ghana Airways once a week. The latter service also calls at Conakry, night stopping at Bathurst. British United Airways operates one return flight each week from Gatwick Airport to Accra calling at Las Palmas (night stop) Bathurst and Freetown.

There are approximately 760 miles of roads in the Gambia excluding district tracks and of this total only 106 miles are to an all-weather standard. A current five-year programme allows for the reconstruction of 234 miles to all-weather standard and the provision of bridges and culverts to British Standard Heavy Loading. Apart from bitumenizing Bathurst streets, now well in hand, similar treatment is being accorded to main streets in the larger Protectorate trading centres.

The chief port, Bathurst, handled 99,320 tons of cargo in 1960. Services for passengers and cargo are provided by the Elder Dempster Lines and Palm Line and occasionally by John Holt and Company. River ports are used for the loading of some 34,000 tons of decorticated groundnuts into ocean-going shipping annually. The H.M.C.S. Lady Wright and the H.M.C.S. Fulladu maintain a weekly service between the main river ports from Bathurst to Basse, a distance of about 242 miles up the Gambia River. The two vessels carried in 1960 a total of 1,090 cabin passengers, 20,687 deck passengers and approximately 3,010 tons of cargo. In addition the Landing Craft Jarga carried approximately 683 tons of cargo to river ports exclusively for Government Departments.

There are no railways.
