Colony: Gambia
Year: 1886
Section: § II. Colonial Uniforms.
Type: narrative
---
§ II. Colonial Uniforms.

160. The Uniform which was formerly worn by certain Colonial Civil Officers has been discontinued and the Uniform of Her Majesty's Civil Service in this country has been substituted for it. But Officers who have already worn the old Uniform may, if they prefer it, continue to wear it, subject to the limitation contained in paragraph 164.

161. The Civil Uniform of the First Class will be worn by the Governors of Canada, Jamaica, New South Wales, Tasmania, South Australia, Victoria, Queensland, New Zealand, Ceylon, Hong Kong, Straits Settlements, Mauritius, Malta, the Cape of Good Hope, British Guiana, Trinidad, and the Governors-in-Chief of the Windward and Leeward Islands; and the Uniform of the Second Class will be worn by Governors of Colonies not comprised in the foregoing list, and by Lieutenant-Governors.

162. The Uniform of the Third Class will be worn by Officers administering the Government of any Colony, but not holding the rank of Lieutenant-Governor, and may be worn by Members of the Colonial Ministry in Colonies having Responsible Government, and by Official Members of the Court of Policy in British Guiana, and of Executive Councils or Councils of Government in other Colonies.

163. Subject to the sanction of Her Majesty, obtained through the Secretary of State, the Uniform of the Fourth Class may be worn by Heads of Principal Departments not having a seat in the Executive Council, or Council of Government, or in the Legislature; and the Uniform of the Fifth Class may be worn by Heads of Subordinate Departments and Chief Assistants in the Principal Departments; but permission to wear the Uniform of the Fourth or Fifth Class shall not be given to the holder of any office in regard to which the Queen shall not have sanctioned the use of such Uniform. Private Secretaries to Governors or Officers administering the Government of all Colonies may wear the Uniform of the Fifth Class. (The following Circulars relate to Uniforms, viz., those of 15th February, 1859; 14th July, 1860; 16th July, 1864; 17th February, 1873; 5th August, 1873; 19th November, 1873; 22nd December, 1873; 31st March, 1880.)

164. No person is entitled without the consent of the Queen to wear the Uniform attached to any Office after he has ceased to hold that office. Such consent can only be obtained on the recommendation of the Governor, made through the Secretary of State, and only in cases of long or meritorious service. No retired Officer will be allowed to wear any other Uniform than that which was attached to his Office during his tenure of it and which he has actually worn.
