Colony: Gambia
Year: 1879
Section: THE GAMBLIA.
Type: narrative
---
THE GAMBLIA.

The Gambia is a great river of Western Africa; it falls into the Atlantic Ocean by a large estuary measuring in some parts nearly 27 miles across, but contracting to 10 miles between Bird Island and Cape St. Mary, and to little more than two between Barra Point and the town of Bathurst on St. Mary's Island. There are 26 feet of water over the bar of the river at low water. The town of Bathurst, 13° 24' N. lat., 16° 36' W. long., is situated on St. Mary's Island, which latter is a sandbank about three and a-half miles long and a mile and a quarter broad, and is separated from the mainland by a narrow channel called Oyster Creek. A large portion of the island is occupied by a swamp, the level of which is in many parts below that of the river.

The settlement on the River Gambia consists of the Island of St. Mary's, British Combo, Albrede, the Cedded Mile, and McCarthy's Island. McArthur's Island is situated between the falls of Barraconda and Bathurst, and is 147 miles distant from the latter. It forms the line of demarcation between those portions of the river known as the upper and lower river.

The principal productions of the settlement and of the adjoining districts are ground nuts, hides, beeswax, rice, cotton, maize, and a corn called kous. Of these, however, only ground nuts, hides, and beeswax are exported. With the exception
of the weaving of cotton into native cloths called pagus there are no manufacturing industries worthy the name in the country. The advantages of this noble river for carrying on trade with the natives in the interior of Africa were well known to our merchants upwards of 230 years ago. The unhappy wars which are constantly waged along its banks at the present day prevent the development of any great commerce.

In 1588 a patent was granted by Queen Elizabeth to some merchants of Exeter to trade in the Gambia, and in 1618 a Company was formed in this country for the purpose of carrying on the trade; the Company was not successful, and another established two years later experienced a like want of success.

In 1724, and subsequently till its abolition, it appears that the trade in slaves formed the staple traffic of the Company. The general commerce between Great Britain and the Gambia fell off after the abolition of the slave trade till 1816, in which year a new settlement was formed at the Island of St. Mary's by British merchants from Senegal.

The Administrator of the Gambia exercises no jurisdiction over the population (as is done in the case of the Protectorate at the Gold Coast) surrounding the British settlements.

The settlement was at first subject to the Government of Sierra Leone. In 1843 it was created an independent colony, with a Governor and Executive and Legislative Councils for the administration of its affairs. It became a portion of the government of West Africa Settlements by the charter of 19th February, 1866, and so continues under the charter of the 19th December, 1874.

The distances of the principal districts and British settlements are as follows:

| From Sierra Leone to the Gambia | 977 Miles |
|---------------------------------|----------|
| Senegal to the Gambia            | 180      |
| St. Mary's to St. James's Island | 17       |
| St. James's to Elephant Island   | 80       |
| Elephant to Deer Island         | 45       |
| St. Mary's to Barraconda Falls   | 300      |
| Barraconda to Fort St. Joseph    | 152      |
