Colony: Gambia
Year: 1963
Section: Education
Type: narrative
---
Education

A White Paper on Government policy was published in January 1961 (Sessional Paper No. 1/1961); this provides for a six-year basic primary course after which pupils are selected by means of a Common Entrance examination either for a Secondary Grammar course leading to School Certificate or a Secondary Modern course of 4 years' duration.

There were over 10,000 pupils attending school in the Gambia in 1962.

In the urban area of Bathurst, primary education is mainly a Government responsibility; there was an enrolment in 1962 of 2,932 pupils in the basic primary classes run by Government, divided amongst 10 schools; eight of these were formerly Mission schools and were taken over by Government under the Local Agreement of 1945; they are now administered by Management Committees on which the former religious authority, Anglican, Methodist, Roman Catholic or Muslim is represented. Fees of 10s. per annum are charged in these schools. The former Roman Catholic schools have retained their senior primary classes (219 pupils), the remainder have been grouped at Crab Island School (see below). There are in addition two private schools (enrolment 419 pupils), run by the Methodist and Roman Catholic Missions respectively as preparatory and Kindergarten schools, at which higher fees are charged.

In the rural area of the Colony there are Government primary schools at Bakau and Serekunda and a grant-aided Roman Catholic Mission school at Kanifing. All these schools provide the basic primary course with additional senior primary classes; the total enrolment is 1,258 pupils.

There are 50 village primary schools in the Protectorate with 4,209 pupils; 36 of these are owned by the District Authorities and staffed mainly by Government teachers. The remainder are Mission Schools (13 Roman Catholic, one Anglican); the salaries of qualified teachers in these schools are reimbursed by Government.

Secondary Grammar education is concentrated mainly in Bathurst where there are three schools. The Gambia High School, opened in 1959, is a mixed school which absorbed the former Methodist Boys' and Girls' High Schools and the Bathurst School of Science. It is an independent non-denominational school administered by a Board of Governors; new school buildings are in course of construction and a Science block has been completed. Sixth Form classes were started in 1960 and the first pupils will be taking Advanced level in the General Certificate of Education in 1962. The Roman Catholic Boys' and Girls' Schools continue as separate schools. Total enrolment in all Secondary Grammar schools was 413 boys and 205 girls in 1962: about 50 pupils are presented for the West African School Certificate each year. The new Government post-primary school at Crab Island has 618 pupils including 212 girls; there is a four-year course. Fees at Secondary Grammar schools are £6 to £9 per annum and at Secondary Modern schools £3 per annum.

Armitage School at Georgetown in MacCarthy Island Division is a post-primary boarding school for Protectorate pupils; it had 157 boys and 23 girls in 1962. Work has now been completed on new buildings for the school, making possible an increased intake of 60 pupils a year, and an enrolment of 240 pupils.

Yundum College, 15 miles from Bathurst, trains both men and women teachers for Government and Mission schools; there is a three-year course, reduced to two years for students who have completed their secondary schooling. There were 117 students including 27 women in 1962 and plans are in hand to enlarge the College to 150 students.

The Technical Trade School in Bathurst provides artisan training for carpenters and metal workers.

There are over 50 Gambians pursuing University courses overseas; 11 of these are at Fourah Bay College in Sierra Leone, 1 is in Ghana and the remainder in the United Kingdom or Ireland. All hold either full Government Scholarships or Bursaries; in addition about 100 private students are following a variety of courses mostly part-time in the United Kingdom.

Government expenditure (recurrent) on education in 1961 was £211,000, representing 10% of total recurrent expenditure.
