Colony: Gambia
Year: 1946
Section: GENERAL DESCRIPTION
Type: narrative
---
GENERAL DESCRIPTION

The promontory forms one side of a bay, called "The Bay of Gibraltar," which is about 4 or 5 miles across and affords good anchorage for shipping passing through the Straits. The eastern and northern faces of the Rock form an inaccessible precipice rising abruptly from the sea. At the northern end, between Gibraltar and the Spanish town of La Linea, lies the North Front, on which a landing ground was completed during the course of the war. From the northern end, the Rock runs southward to the ancient site of O'Hara's Tower, from which it slopes gradually till it terminates in a perpendicular cliff about 100 feet high at the water's edge at Europa; these cliffs are continued along the western face to the New Mole, beyond which the Fortress is protected by artificial ramparts. Behind these latter lines lies the larger portion of the town, covering an area of only \( \frac{3}{4} \) by \( \frac{1}{2} \) mile. Between this part of the town and the southern portion is a picturesque public garden called "The Alameda." The civil population of the southern part of the town is confined to the east and south sides of the South mole, the remainder of the southern portion of the Rock being taken up with barracks, hospitals, etc., for the Military and the Navy. The Naval harbour is part of the west side of the Rock. It is formed by three separate moles known as the "North," "Detached," and "South" moles. The North Mole runs westward from Devil's Tongue for about 2,900 feet and then southwards, giving a total length of over a mile. The South Mole projects into the sea for a distance of 3,660 feet in a north-west direction. The Detached Mole, 2,717 feet long, is so situated between these two moles as to form a breakwater and leave two means of exit and entrance. The harbour contains a water area of 440 acres. There are three large graving docks for Naval purposes and a small dock which is available for merchant vessels of light draught.
