Colony: Gambia
Year: 1928
Section: Means of Communication.
Type: narrative
---
Means of Communication.

Communication between the Colony and Europe is effected by the steamers of the African Steamship Co. (Messrs. Elder Dempster & Co.), which nominally run fortnightly between Liverpool and Bathurst, and those of the Woermann Linie A.G. Hamburg, which call at Bathurst monthly both homeward and outward. Steamers of the Messageries Maritimes sail to and from Bordeaux and Dakar fortnightly, and Dakar being only 90 miles from Bathurst, passengers often join these steamers there, and get to Europe in eight days.

Internal communication is comparatively easy for West Africa, most of the important firms having steamers or launches which make frequent trips during the trading season up the river; these vessels are ready to accept any passengers or freight which may offer.

Telegraph cables place Bathurst in communication with Europe and West Africa.

The Admiralty erected a Wireless Station in the first half of the year 1915, at Cape St. Mary. The Station was closed down in the latter part of 1921, in accordance with the Admiralty's policy of retrenchment.

A wireless service is in operation between Bathurst and the river towns of Georgetown, Kontaur and Basse. Communication is maintained with ships at sea within a wave length of 600 metres. A central battery telephone system is employed in the town of Bathurst, and in direct connection with Cape St. Mary.

There are no railways or metalled roads, save one, from Bathurst to Cape St. Mary, 7½ miles across the Oyster Creek Bridge, which connects the island of St. Mary with the mainland of British Kombo. Horses will live, and the river forms an unrivalled highway for 300 miles. The roads (unmade) in the Protectorate are kept clear, and light traps or bicycles could pass along in those districts which are free from swamps.

Motor cars are in use in and around Bathurst.

The rules of the Postal Union have been adopted by the Colony and its Protectorate.

The following are the rates of postage:

Letters.
Internal—1½d. per oz.
Empire and U.S.A.—1½d. for each oz. or fraction thereof.
Other Countries—3d. for the first oz., and 1½d. for each succeeding oz. or fraction thereof.

Parcels Post.
If posted locally for delivery within the Colony, 6d. for first 2 lbs., 4d. for each additional lb.
Parcels from abroad redirected to an Inland Office, 6d. for first 2 lbs., 4d. for each additional lb.
If addressed to the United Kingdom or British West African Colonies:
Not over 3 lbs. in weight, 2s. 3d.
Over 3 lbs., but not over 7 lbs., 3s. 6d.
Over 7 lbs., but not over 11 lbs., 4s. 9d.
Over 11 lbs. but not over 22 lbs., 6s. 9d.

There is no direct parcel post scheme at present with foreign countries. All parcels are forwarded through the medium of the General Post Office, London, a small additional charge being made for onward transmission.
