Colony: Gambia
Year: 1913
Section: THE GAMBIA.
Type: narrative
---
THE GAMBIA.

Situation and Area.

The Gambia is a great river of Western Africa, falling into the Atlantic Ocean by a large estuary measuring in some parts nearly 27 miles across, but contracting to 10 miles between Bird Island and Cape St. Mary, and to little more than two between Barra Point and the town of Bathurst on St. Mary’s Island. There are 26 feet of water over the bar of the river at low tide, and ocean-going steamers drawing no more than 13 feet can at present proceed without trouble to McCarthy’s Island. A survey of the River is in progress. The town of Bathurst, 13° 24’ N. lat., 16° 36’ W. long., is situated on St. Mary’s Island, a sandbank about three and a half miles long and a mile and a quarter broad, separated from the mainland by a narrow channel called Oyster Creek. It is an exceptionally clean town, and this fact was specially commented upon by the Commission sent out by the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine. Bathurst is the seat of Government. A large portion of the island is a swamp, the level of which is in many parts below that of the river.

The Colony on the river Gambia consists of the Island of St. Mary, British Komabo, Albreda, the Cedet Mile, and McCarthy’s Island, situated between the Falls of Barraconda and Bathurst, and 158 miles distant from the latter. This island
forms the line of demarcation between those portions of the river known as the Upper and Lower River. The total area of the Colony proper is about 69 square miles (equal to Jersey and Guernsey). The Protectorate extends on both banks of the river for 250 miles from its mouth. But by an ordinance No. 7 of 1902 all parts of the Colony, except the Island of St. Mary's, were placed under the Protectorate system of administration. The Island of St. Mary's has an area of about 2,500 acres, the greater part of which is swampy, and a population of 8,907. The territory administered as Protectorate is approximately 4,000 sq. miles, and has an estimated population of 152,000. A survey of the boundaries dividing the Gambia from Senegal was completed by the Anglo-French Boundary Commission in 1905.
