Colony: Gambia
Year: 1899
Section: General Description.
Type: narrative
---
General Description.

The promontory forms one side of a bay, called the Bay of Gibraltar, which is about 4 or 5 miles across, and affords good anchorage for the shipping passing through the straits. The eastern and northern faces of the Rock are an inaccessible precipice rising abruptly from the sea and the sandy plain known as the North Front, which lies between Gibraltar and the Spanish town of La Linea; from the northern end the Rock runs along southward like a knife-edge to the ancient site of
O'Hara's Tower, from which it slopes gradually till it terminates in a perpendicular cliff about 100 feet high at the water's edge at Europa; these cliffs are continued along the western face to the New Mole, beyond which the fortress is protected by artificial ramparts. Behind those latter lies the larger portion of the town, covering an area of only \( \frac{3}{4} \) mile. It is one of the most thickly inhabited places in the world, but it is not unhealthy. Between this part of the town and the southern portion is a picturesque public garden, called the Alameda. The civil population in the southern part of the town is confined to the east and south-east of the New Mole, the remainder of the southern portion of the Rock being entirely taken up with barracks, hospitals, &c., for the Military and the Navy.

Gibraltar is extensively used as a port of call and coaling station by shipping, and it is also an entrepôt of the trade between England and the Arabian states of Northern Africa, for which it has many advantages, having been ever since its occupation by the British a free port. Extensive works for an enclosed harbour are now in progress for the Admiralty, and also for the construction of three graving docks.

The northern end of the harbour is to be enclosed by a mole, built at the joint cost of the Imperial Government and the Colony, by which greatly increased facilities for coaling merchant ships and for landing and shipping cargo will be afforded. The works on this part of the harbour were begun in 1897, and considerable progress has been made. A contract has now been entered into for the completion of the scheme, which, it is estimated, will take 4½ years.

About 450 persons are employed in tobacco manufactories, and about 1,200 in the coal depôts. It is a port of registry, having on 31st December, 1896, 30 vessels, of together 5,171 tons. No statistics of imports or exports are taken.

The revenue is derived from port dues, the rent of the Crown estate in the town, duties upon wine, spirits, beer, and tobacco, and licence duties and fees.

There is no executive council nor any legislative body. The Governor, who is also the General commanding the garrison, exercises by himself all the functions of government and legislation. The management of the drainage, water supply, &c., is in the hands of a nominated body, called the Sanitary Commissioners. Their receipts for 1897 were 1,113,602 pesetas, and their expenditure 1,106,655 pesetas, and their debt on the 31st of Dec., 1897, 1,984,000 pesetas.

There is a branch of the Anglo-Egyptian Bank, and several private bankers.

A Government savings bank was founded in 1882, and had on 31st Dec., 1897, 5,024,723 pesetas deposited by 4,422 depositors. Since the 1st Oct., 1898, the legal tender currency has been that of the United Kingdom, and the public accounts are now kept in it. The change from Spanish currency, which had previously been the legal tender, was effected under the provisions of the Orders in Council of the 9th of August, 1898.

There is daily postal communication with England by way of Spain and Franco. Rates of postage: letters 1d. per ¼ oz., newspapers ½d.* The internal postage rate is ½d. per ½ oz. There are also branch post offices worked by the Gibraltar postal administration at Tangier, Tetuan, Larache, Rabat, Casablanca, Safi, Mazagan Mogador and Fez in Morocco, and direct telegraphic communication with Spain, and by cables to Tangier, Malta, Lisbon, and Cadiz.