Colony: Gambia
Year: 1960
Section: Education
Type: narrative
---
**Education**

Government is responsible for primary education in Bathurst, where there are 10 primary schools with a total enrolment of 3,329 pupils; most were formerly Mission Schools and are now administered by Management Committees on which the religious authority, Anglican, Methodist, Roman Catholic or Muslim, is represented. There are in addition two private schools (enrolment 245 pupils) run by the Methodist and Roman Catholic Missions as preparatory departments to their own High Schools.

In the rural area of the Colony there are Government Primary Schools at Bakau and Serekunda, and a grant-aided Roman Catholic Mission School at Kanifing: the total enrolment in these schools is 933 pupils.

There are 37 village primary schools in the Protectorate with 2,210 pupils; 25 of the schools are owned by the District Authorities and staffed in the main by Government teachers. The remaining schools are run by the Missions (10 Roman Catholic, 1 Anglican, 1 Methodist); the salaries of qualified teachers in these schools are reimbursed by Government.

Secondary education is concentrated mainly in Bathurst where there are three schools; the new Gambia High School is a mixed school which has absorbed the former Methodist Boys' and Girls' High Schools; the Roman Catholic Boys' and Girls' School continue as separate schools. Total enrolment in all schools is 388 boys and 235 girls. The new Government post-primary school at Crab Island has 538 pupils.

Armitage School, at Georgetown in MacCarthy Island Division, is a post-primary boarding school for Protectorate boys; it had 98 pupils in 1958, and work has continued on new buildings for the school, with the aim of increasing the enrolment to 240 pupils.

Yundum College, 15 miles from Bathurst, trains both men and women teachers for Government and the Missions; there is a three-year course, reduced to two years for School Certificate holders.

There are 44 Gambians overseas on Government scholarships, and over 100 private students, mostly in the United Kingdom.

Government expenditure on education in 1958 was £124,064 compared with £29,539 in 1948.
