Colony: Gambia
Year: 1962
Section: Development Plans
Type: narrative
---
**Development Plans**

A total of £1,300,000 was originally made available under the Colonial Development and Welfare Act of 1945. Of this sum £800,000 was for services (medical, agricultural, veterinary and educational) including capital expenditure on buildings and plant; £500,000 was for the development of Bathurst and the Kombo.

The major capital works which will remain as monuments of the Colonial Development and Welfare Act of 1945 are:

(i) A new hospital in Bathurst.
(ii) A new town drainage system.
(iii) 400 acres of adjacent reclaimed land which was formerly swamp.
(iv) A new urban water supply.
(v) New schools.
(vi) New health centres and rural dispensaries.
(vii) New veterinary headquarters.
(viii) New paved streets in Bathurst.
(ix) New quarters for meteorological and airport staff.
(x) Armitage School, Georgetown.
(xi) Oyster Creek Bridge, length 720 ft.
(xii) Road Bridge at Pakali Ba, 100 ft. span.
(xiii) New High School Science Block, Bathurst.
Other schemes include research into pest infestation, veterinary and agricultural improvement, the Gambia Rice Farm, experimental work on bilharzia, sociological research and reconstruction of some roads in the Protectorate to an all-weather standard. Work commenced in 1960 on the construction of a bitumen surfaced road between Brikama and Mansakonko, where it will join the Trans-Gambia road which provides a lateral link with flanking Senegalese territory. The road when completed will be the largest project financed from Colonial Development and Welfare funds in the Gambia.

Gambia’s initial territorial allocation under the Colonial Development and Welfare Act of 1955 was £200,000. Its unspent balance from the previous development was approximately £600,000. It therefore had a total territorial allocation for 1955–60 of approximately £800,000, to which has been added the sum of £50,000 made as a supplementary allocation in 1957.

A further £1 million has been made available up to March 1963 under the Colonial Development and Welfare Act, 1959.

A programme of further development schemes for the Gambia within the funds now made available has been approved and provides for the continuation of uncompleted schemes and for new schemes, including road bridges at Brumen and Sami, new all-weather ferry terminals at Barra and Bathurst, new primary schools in Bathurst and Phase II of the New High School, Bathurst. This programme is, however, being reviewed in the light of the deterioration in the overall financial situation.

Other Development

The “Farmers’ Fund” established from the profits of the Oilseeds Marketing Board for the purpose of financing development projects has provided funds for schemes to open up new rice lands, train farmers in the use of ox-drawn ploughs and other implements and for many other enterprises of an agricultural nature. Schemes to improve village water supplies and rebuild river wharves are being implemented. Loans and grants from the “Farmers’ Fund” have been made to District Authorities to enable them to build new schools and expand existing ones.

A programme of construction and improvement to rural water supplies continues and there are over 350 wells of which 100 are equipped with pumps. The construction of a further 200 wells is planned and where required washing slabs and cattle watering troughs are also provided. The reconstruction of 26 river wharves continues at a good pace, the arrival of new piling equipment having considerably accelerated progress. The planning of six permanent wharves is in hand. Both schemes are financed by the Farmers’ Fund, the latter on equal share basis with government.
