Colony: Gambia
Year: 1960
Section: Development Plans
Type: narrative
---
Development Plans

A total of £1,300,000 was originally made available under the Colonial Development and Welfare Act of 1945. Of this sum £800,000 was for services (medical, agricultural, veterinary and educational) including capital expenditure on buildings and plant; £500,000 was for the development of Bathurst and the Kombo.

The major capital works which will remain as monuments of the Colonial Development and Welfare Act of 1945 are:

(i) A new hospital in Bathurst.
(ii) A new town drainage system.
(iii) 400 acres of adjacent reclaimed land which was formerly swamp.
(iv) A new urban water supply.
(v) New schools.
(vi) New health centres and rural dispensaries.
(vii) New veterinary headquarters.
(viii) New paved streets in Bathurst.
(ix) New quarters for meteorological and airport staff.
(x) Armitage School, Georgetown.
(xi) Oyster Creek Bridge, length 720 ft.
(xii) Road Bridge at Pakali Ba, 100 ft. span.
(xiii) New High School Science Block, Bathurst.
Other schemes include research into pest infestation, veterinary and agricultural improvement, the Gambia Rice Farm, experimental work on bilharzia, sociological research, and reconstruction of roads in the Protectorate to an all-weather standard.

Gambia's initial territorial allocation under the Colonial Development and Welfare Act of 1955 was £200,000. Its unspent balance from the previous development was approximately £600,000. It therefore had a total territorial allocation for 1955–60 of approximately £800,000, to which has been added the sum of £50,000 made as a supplementary allocation in 1957.

A programme of further development schemes for the Gambia within the funds now made available has been approved and provides for the continuation of uncompleted schemes and for new schemes, including road bridges at Brumen and Sami, new all-weather ferry terminals at Barra and Bathurst, new primary schools in Bathurst and Phase II of the New High School, Bathurst.

**Other Development**

A "Farmers' Fund" has been established from the profits of the Oilseeds Marketing Board. Besides meeting all the expenses of employing five Development Officers, it has enabled a number of schemes, chiefly of an agricultural nature, to be started. These schemes include expenditure on the opening up of new rice lands, fishing, communal gardens, group farming, ox-ploughing, village settlements, agricultural research, and animal pest control.

A programme of construction and improvement to rural water supplies continues, and over 200 wells of which approximately 70% are equipped with pumps have been completed. The construction of a further 200 wells is planned and where required washing slabs and cattle watering troughs are also provided. The reconstruction of 26 river wharves continues at a good pace, the arrival of new piling equipment having considerably accelerated progress. The planning of six permanent wharves is in hand. Both schemes are financed by the Farmers' Fund, the latter on equal share basis with government.
