Colony: Gambia
Year: 1958
Section: Education
Type: narrative
---
### Education

Government is responsible for primary education in Bathurst; most schools have a religious grouping and are administered through Management Committees on each of which the appropriate religious authority is represented. These Government schools are eight in number and grouped thus:

One each—Anglican/Methodist Boys', Girls' and Infants' School;
One each—Roman Catholic Boys', Girls' and Infants' School;
One each—Mohammedan Boys' and Infants' School.
There are also a Government infant school, a Government school for over-age pupils and a grant-aided Mission school; the total number of children enrolled is 3,553. There is also a Domestic Science Centre for girls and an Arts and Crafts Centre for boys. Government schools have been opened at Bakau and Serekunda in the Colony; the rolls total 620 and there is a Mission school with a roll of about 231. There are four secondary Mission schools in Bathurst, two for boys and two for girls. The total number of pupils on the rolls of these schools, which are controlled by the Missions concerned but receive substantial grants from Government, is 372 boys and 216 girls.

The Methodist Girls' High School runs private kindergarten and preparatory departments attended by 153 children.

In the Protectorate there is a Government boarding school at Georgetown, the Armitage School, which gives secondary modern education up to Form V. Twenty-two village schools have been opened by District Authorities. They are staffed by Government teachers seconded to the Authorities.

The Missions run four primary schools in the Upper River Division, and three in MacCarthy Island Division. One of the schools in MacCarthy Island Division is run jointly with the District Authorities.

There is a Teacher-training College at Yundum with 56 students. Twenty-five Gambians with Government scholarships and about 60 private students are in the United Kingdom.

Government expenditure on education in 1956 was estimated at £95,700, compared with £5,038 in 1935.
