Colony: Gambia
Year: 1962
Section: Constitution
Type: narrative
---
Constitution

In September 1959 the Secretary of State accepted certain proposals for constitutional changes and a new Constitution for the Colony and Protectorate of the Gambia came into operation in April 1960.

Under the Gambia (Constitution) Order in Council, 1960, the provisions of which apply both to the Colony and to the Protectorate, the Executive Council consists of four ex officio Members, and not more than six Appointed Members. Of the six Appointed Members, all of whom must be Elected or Nominated Unofficial members of the House of Representatives, one has been appointed a Chief Minister with general responsibility for co-ordinating the whole field of ministerial activity and is also responsible in the House of Representatives for leading the business of the Government, five have been appointed Ministers with Portfolio and assigned special responsibilities for:

(a) Conducting in the Executive Council and the House of Representatives business relating to the matters within their respective portfolios;

(b) ensuring in association with the appropriate public officer, that effect is given to decisions taken by the Governor in Executive Council relating to these matters, and

(c) initiating policy in matters included in their respective portfolios.

The Governor attends and presides at meetings of the Executive Council. With certain specified exceptions the Governor is still required to consult the Executive Council in the exercise of his powers, but may act in opposition to their advice if he deems it right so to do.

The House of Representatives consists of a Speaker, four ex officio Members, and up to three Nominated Members and 27 Elected Members of whom five represent Bathurst, two represent Kombo St. Mary Division, 20 represent the Protectorate of whom 12 are elected on a basis of universal suffrage and eight by the Chiefs. Meetings of the House of Representatives are presided over by the Speaker but the Governor retains the right to attend any meeting and preside thereat. The usual legislative powers of the House are subject to the Governor's reserve powers to legislate by declaration if he considers it expedient so to do in the interest of public order, public faith or good government.

In July 1961, the Secretary of State agreed to certain proposals for further Constitutional changes and it is expected that a new Constitution for the Colony and Protectorate will come into operation by the middle of the year when the Executive Council will be comprised of a Premier, Ministers, and the Attorney-General, who will attend in an advisory capacity. The Executive Council will be presided over by the Governor.

The House of Representatives will consist of a Speaker, to be elected by the House; a Deputy Speaker, to be elected by the House from among its members; Elected Members (seven from the Colony and 25 from the Protectorate); the Attorney-General who will not have a vote; not more than two members are to be nominated by the Governor after consultation with the Premier (also without voting rights); and four chiefs are to be elected by the Chiefs in assembly.

Land Policy