Colony: Gambia
Year: 1955
Section: Development Plans
Type: narrative
---
Development Plans

A total of £1,300,000 was originally made available under the Colonial Development and Welfare Act of 1945. Of this sum £800,000 was for services (medical, agricultural, veterinary and educational) including capital expenditure on buildings and plant. £500,000 was for the development of Bathurst and the Kombo. An additional allocation of £200,000 was promised in 1951 to augment the balance available for a reclamation scheme.

The major capital works which will remain as monuments of the Colonial Development and Welfare Act are:

(i) A new hospital in Bathurst.
(ii) A new town drainage system.
(iii) 400 acres of adjacent reclaimed land which was formerly swamp.
(iv) A new urban water supply.
(v) New schools.
(vi) New health centres and rural dispensaries.
(vii) New veterinary headquarters.

Other Development

A "Farmers' Fund" has been established from the profits of the Oilseeds Marketing Board. Besides meeting all the expenses of employing six Development Officers, it has enabled a number of schemes, chiefly of an agricultural nature, to be started. These schemes include expenditure in the opening up of new rice lands, fishing, poultry, tsetse control, communal gardens, group farming, introduction of timber-sawing by hand, and animal pest (baboon, monkey and pig) control.

A large separate scheme is an experimental farm on part of the old Colonial Development Corporation Poultry Farm. This is financed partly by the Colonial Development Corporation and partly by the Fund; it is under Government control. The Colonial Development and Welfare Rice Project in the middle river area was formally abandoned by the Corporation on 1st April, 1953, but is being carried on on an experimental basis by the Gambia Government with the help of Colonial Development and Welfare Funds. It is now in the form of a "pilot" scheme with a limited area under cultivation but with plans for gradual expansion to 800 acres in 1956.
