Colony: Gambia
Year: 1928
Section: THE GAMBIA.
Type: narrative
---
THE GAMBIA.

Situation and Area.

The Gambia is a great river of Western Africa, falling into the Atlantic Ocean by a large estuary measuring in some parts nearly 27 miles across, but contracting to 10 miles between Bird Island bank and Cape St. Mary, and to little more than two between Barra Point and the town of Bathurst on St. Mary's Island. There are 26 feet of water at the entrance of the river at low tide, and ocean-going steamers drawing no more than 13 feet can at present proceed without trouble to MacCarthy Island. There is no bar to the Gambia River. The seat of Government is Bathurst, 13° 27' N. lat., 16° 34' W. long., situated on St. Mary's Island, a sandbank about three and a half miles long and a mile and a quarter broad, separated from the mainland by a narrow channel called Oyster Creek. A large portion of the island is a swamp, the level of which is in many parts below that of the river.

The Colony on the river Gambia consists of the Island of St. Mary, British Kombo, Albreda, the Cedet Mile, the territories of Brefet and Bajana, and MacCarthy Island, situated between the Falls of Barraconda and Bathurst, and 158 miles distant from the latter. This island forms the line of demarcation between those portions of the river known as the Upper and Lower River. The total area of the Colony proper is about 69 square miles (equal to Jersey and Guernsey). The Protectorate extends on both banks of the river for 250 miles from its mouth. But by an ordinance No. 7 of 1902 (repealed and replaced by Ordinance No. 30 of 1913) all parts of the Colony, except the Island of St. Mary's, were placed under the Protectorate system of
administration. The Island of St. Mary's has an area of about 2,500 acres, the greater part of which is swampy, and a population of 9,227. The territory administered as Protectorate is 4,069 sq. miles, and has an estimated population of 211,223. A survey of the boundaries dividing the Gambia from Senegal was completed by the Anglo-French Boundary Commission in 1905.
