Colony: Gambia
Year: 1915
Section: Industry.
Type: narrative
---
Industry.

There are no mines in the Colony, but in several places in the Protectorate iron ore is to be found in large quantities, although not worth exportation.
A small quantity of cotton is grown, but only for local consumption, and it is made into narrow strips of rough coloured cloth, common to all West Africa. The strips average 27 yards in length and 9 inches in width.

There is a good deal of boat building and repairing carried out. Most of the cutters used in the ground nut trade have been built in the Colony, and there are a number of expert shipwrights in Bathurst.

Pottery is made in the Upper River Province. A considerable amount of excellent leather is produced from goat skins. It is however not exported but utilised by the people in making bags, slippers, sandals, scabbards, saddles and horse trappings, and the skilful manner in which coloured grasses, silk cotton, etc., are laced through the decorative portion of the leather work is common to most of Mohammedan West Africa. Each town or village usually has a "Koranki" man, or leather worker.

There is an abundance of fish in the lower reaches of the Gambia River, and large quantities are dried and taken each season into the Protectorate for sale. Quantities of oysters are obtained in the creek, and are cooked by the people for food, the shells being made into native lime.

The ground nut is the staple article of cultivation, the people devoting their whole attention to this product, growing, in comparison, but small quantities of rice and corn for their own consumption.

Ground nuts pay the producer on an average £4 to £6 per acre, and, beyond the sowing of the seed and an occasional hoeing, give the farmer very little trouble, and he knows that there will be no difficulty in disposing of his crop, and therefore prefers cultivating this to any other economic product known to him.

There is in Bathurst a fair supply of vegetables such as garden eggs, sweet potatoes, tomatoes, ochras, cassada, peppers, native spinachs, etc., and it is possible to procure lettuces, cabbages, carrots, turnips and beans from December to May at a price.

Pawpaws, limes, oranges, bananas and mangoes are obtainable at different times of the year and in a very limited quantity.

Maize, guinea-corn, palm kernels, india-rubber and wax are also produced in the Protectorate, and a great number of medicinal roots and herbs are to be found, samples of which can be seen at the Imperial Institute. There is very little timber in the country suitable for exportation.

A considerable entrepot trade is done with the French settlements and the adjoining coast districts in cotton goods, spirits, tobacco, rice, and hardware.

Large quantities of kola nuts are imported from Sierra Leone.
