Colony: Gambia
Year: 1910
Section: Industry.
Type: narrative
---
Industry.

There are no mines in the Colony, but in several places in the Protectorate iron ore is to be found in large quantities. Investigations properly undertaken might disclose other mineral wealth.

A small quantity of cotton is grown but only for local consumption, and it is made into native cloths, known as Pagns. The weaving is very primitive, native looms of an ingenious kind being used and the cloth woven in long strips. In quality this cloth compares favourably with imported Manchester cotton cloths. The strips of native cloth average about 27 yards in length and are about 9 inches in width.

There is a good deal of boat building and repairing carried out. Most of the cutters used in the ground nut trade have been built in the Colony, and there are a number of expert shipwrights in Bathurst.

Pottery is made in the Upper River Province. A considerable amount of excellent leather is produced from goat skins. It is however not exported but utilised by the people in making bags, slippers, sandals, scabbards, saddles and horse trappings, and the skilful manner in which coloured grasses, silk cotton, etc., are laced through the decorative portion of the leather work is most ingenious. Each town or village usually has a "Koranki" man, or leather worker.

There is an abundance of fish in the lower reaches of the Gambia River, and large quantities are dried and taken each season into the Protectorate for sale. Nearly all the fish brought into Bathurst are caught in nets. Quantities of oysters are obtained in the creek, and are cooked by the people for food, the shells being made into native lime.

The ground nut is the staple article of cultivation, the people devoting their whole attention to this product growing, in comparison, but small quantities of rice and corn for their own consumption.

The population, however, of this country is not large enough to cope with the cultivation of other products for export. Ground nuts pay the producer on an average £4 to £6 per acre, and beyond the sowing of the seed and an occasional hoeing gives the farmer very little trouble, and he knows that there will be no difficulty in at once disposing of his crop, and he therefore prefers cultivating them to any other economic product known to him.

There is in Bathurst a fair supply of vegetables such as garden eggs, sweet potatoes, tomatoes, ochras, cassada, peppers, native spinachs, etc., and as most of the Europeans have a garden it is possible to procure lettuces, cabbages, carrots, turnips and beans from December to May.

As far as fruit is concerned, pawpaws, limes, oranges, bananas and mangoes are obtainable.

Maize, corn, palm kernels, india-rubber and wax are also produced in the Protectorate, and a great number of medicinal roots and herbs are to be found, samples of which can be seen at the Imperial Institute. There is little or no timber in the country suitable for exportation.

A considerable entrepot trade is done with the French settlements and the adjoining coast districts in cotton goods, spirits, tobacco, rice, and hardware.

Large quantities of kola nuts are imported from Sierra Leone.
