EAST AFRICA PROTECTORATE.

On the 3rd of September, 1888, a charter was issued incorporating the Imperial British East Africa Company for the "entire management of those parts of the islands and mainland of the Zanzibar dominions on the East Coast of Africa appertaining to the territory lying between Wanga and Kipini, both inclusive, which are recognised in the Anglo-German Treaty of 1886 as reserved for the exclusive exercise of British influence, together with any further rights of a similar nature in East Africa or elsewhere which the Company may hereafter acquire." The Company thus formed had for its president Sir William Mackinnon, to whom the concession was originally granted on the 24th of May, 1887, by the Sultan of Zanzibar. The concession was a strip of coast 150 miles in length, including the important harbour of Mombasa, which was formed probably the finest harbour on the East Coast of Africa, and stretching inward to the ten-mile limit to which the Zanzibar dominion on the mainland was confined by the Anglo-German agreement referred to. The Company, however, had full powers for acquiring territory to the west of this limit as far as the zone of British influence extends, from the coast to the confines of the Congo Free State. Including the sphere of influence, the area to which the operations of the Company potentially extended was estimated at 750,000 sq. miles. The whole of the remaining territory of the Sultan of Zanzibar was, by an arrangement concluded in 1889, placed under British protection, and that part of it north of Kipini was conceded to the Company on 31st August, 1889, and 4th March, 1890.

On the 1st of July, 1895, the Company's territory was transferred to Her Majesty's Government, and is now administered under the Foreign Office through the Agent and Consul-General at Zanzibar, who is also Commissioner and Consul General for the East Africa Protectorate.

The Anglo-German Agreement of 1890 defined the respective spheres of influence, so as to assign to Great Britain all the territory between the present southern line of delimitation, along the parallel of 1° S. lat., from the Congo State to the East Coast of the Victoria Nyanza, and hence to the mouth of the River Umba, including Mitumbiro mountain, but excluding Kilimanjaro, to the northern limit of the parallel of 6° N. lat., and the River Juba from its intersection with that parallel. Westward the British sphere extends to the Congo Free State, and to the north of that it is undefined, but includes the western watershed of the Nile. The frontiers have been further defined by agreements with Germany (1893) and Italy (1891). This large territory is divided, for administration purposes into two distinct Protectorates, both administered from the Foreign Office, viz., the East Africa Protectorate and the Uganda Protectorate. (See below.) In the East Africa Protectorate are included the mainland dominions of the Sultan of Zanzibar, known as the Seychelles, or Coast Province. The other administrative districts or provinces of the Protectorate are Ukimba, Tanaland, and Jubaland. The Uganda Protectorate adjoins the East Africa Protectorate on the west. A large portion of the East Africa Protectorate has not yet been brought under regular administrative control.

The principal port of the East Africa Protectorate—Mombasa—situated on the island of that name, possesses a fine harbour, and is in telegraphic communication with Europe. Mombasa is the coast terminus of the Uganda Railway, which in November, 1899, had been completed to about the 360th mile.

Commissioner and Consul-General, Sir A. Hardinge. (See under Zanzibar.)
Sub-Commissioner and Consul, G.H. Crawford, 750l.
Sub-Commissioner, Ukimba, J. Ainsworth, 500l.
Ditto Tanaland and Resident in Witu, A. S. Rogers, 700l.
Ditto Jubaland, A. C. W. Jenner, 500l.
Nine District Officers and sixteen Assistant District Officers.
Commandant of Forces, Colonel G. P. Hatch, 900l.
Second in Command, Major E. G. Harrison, 650l.

