SOUTH AFRICA.

High Commission.

The office of High Commissioner in and for South Africa was created by Letters Patent in 1878. In 1879 a second High Commissioner was appointed, to whom was assigned South-Eastern Africa, including Zululand and Amatongaland; but this arrangement ceased in 1881, when a Special Commissioner for Zulu affairs was appointed, who was also Governor of Natal (which now includes Zululand and Amatongaland). The High Commissioner
for South Africa, who, under the Commission of 1889, is the officer for the time being administering the government of the Cape, represents the Crown in all matters occurring in South Africa beyond the limits of the colonies properly so called, i.e., at present the Cape, Natal, and Basutoland. He is charged with the conduct of British relations with the South African Republic (Transvaal), and the Orange Free State, as well as those with native states and tribes outside the colonies of the Cape and Natal, including Swaziland, which is now administered by the Government of the South African Republic under the Convention of 1894.

The High Commissioner is also Governor of Basutoland, and supervises the affairs of the Bechuanaland Protectorate, and he exercises the control provided by Order in Council over the administration of the British South Africa Company in Southern Rhodesia (i.e., South of the Zambezi). The Southern Rhodesia Order in Council, 1898, provides for a control by the High Commissioner over legislation, important appointments, and native affairs in Rhodesia, and for the appointment of an Imperial Resident Commissioner, who is the subordinate of the High Commissioner, and of an Imperial Commandant of the armed forces, the control of which was taken away from the Company after Dr. Jameson's raid into the Transvaal, and placed under the High Commissioner. The expenses of the High Commission are borne partly by Imperial funds, under Vote 6 of Class V, and partly by the Cape Government; the correspondence with the South African Republic is carried on through a British Agent at Pretoria, furnished with a letter of credence to the President.*

High Commissioner, Sir Alfred Milner, G.C.M.G., K.C.B. (Cape Town), 3,000l. from Cape, and 1,000l. Imp. Fds.

Secretary and Accountant to the High Commissioner, George Vaudeleur Fildes, 1,200l.

Assistant ditto, Albert Browne, 470l. and 50l. as Auditor, Basutoland.

Clerks, C. Le Camp, 280l.; C. Teagle, 140l.; Miss Hanbury, 130l.; Miss Klerck, 100l.

Resident Commissioner, Southern Rhodesia, Sir Marshal J. Clarke, K.C.M.G., 2,300l. and allowances.

Commandant-General, Captain J. S. Nicholson, 1,000l.

†British Agent at Pretoria, W. Conyngham Greene, C.B., 3,000l. (with office allowance).

†British Vice-Consul, Johannesburg, J. E. Evans, 500l.

†British Consul in Swazieland, J. Smuts 800l. and allowances.

For officials in Basutoland and the Bechuanaland Protectorate, see under Basutoland and Bechuanaland Protectorate below.

