UGANDA.

The British Protectorate over Uganda was proclaimed on June 19th, 1894, in succession to a brief administration by the Imperial British East Africa Company. The Protectorate was further extended over Unyoro and Busoga on July 3rd, 1896. By numerous subsequent treaties concluded by various officers in the service of the Protectorate, the British administration has spread still further over countries adjoining Uganda, until the boundaries
of the Protectorate in the present year may be set forth more or less as follows:

On the east, the Uganda Protectorate is bounded by British East Africa as far north as the 6th degree of north latitude, and as far south as the Anglo-German boundary; on the south, by the Anglo-German boundary and by the 1st degree of south latitude; on the west, by the frontier of the Congo Free State; and on the north, by an undetermined line between Lado on the White Nile and the watershed of Lake Rudolph; on the north, in fact, it is conterminous with the southward extension of the Egyptian Sudan.

During the first years of the British Protectorate, an armed force was created from the remains of the Sudanese army of Emin Pasha. To these other recruits were added from the districts of the White Nile, and the force thus organised, together with irregular bands of friendly Baganda, was used to repel the hostile attacks of the King of Unyoro, and later of Mwanga, King of Uganda. Later on an Indian contingent, similar to that employed in East Africa and in British Central Africa, was established. Unfortunately discontent arose amongst a section of the Sudanese force, partly due to the difference of pay which existed at that time between themselves and the Indian soldiers. These Sudanese broke into open mutiny at the end of 1897, and at the same time Mwanga, the runaway king of Uganda, attempted to raise a rebellion against the British. The Baganda, however, remained loyal, and after a year's fighting, with some loss in British officers, the mutiny was thoroughly quelled, and Mwanga and Kabarega (the King of Unyoro) were captured and sent as prisoners to Kismayu. Since the early part of 1899 the country has been perfectly peaceful, and has made considerable progress in commerce.

Uganda itself is separated by about 800 miles from the east coast of Africa, but the north-easternmost extremity of Victoria Nyanza Lake is not distant more than 550 miles. Over this stretch of country, two-thirds of which lie within the British East Africa Protectorate, transport has been exceedingly difficult owing to the paucity of inhabitants to act as porters, and stretches of country unhealthy for beasts of burden. Consequently, the Imperial Government resolved in 1895 to construct a railway from Mombasa to the north-east corner of Lake Victoria Nyanza. This railway at the end of 1899 had reached and descended the Kikuyu escarpment, and had covered about 380 miles of the 550 separating Mombasa from Port Ugowe, on Victoria Nyanza, which will be the eventual destination of the railway.

The trade of Uganda is beginning to make a decided increase, and the approach of the railway brings numerous European and Indian settlers and merchants. The principal articles of commerce at the present time are ivory, cattle, wild coffee, and India-rubber. The country is, however, as a whole, extremely rich in most African commercial products, and only requires the connection of the railway with the coast to become exceedingly prosperous in commerce.

H.M. Special Commissioner and Commander-in-Chief, Sir Harry H. Johnston, K.C.B., 2,900l.
Deputy-Commissioner and Commandant of Troops, Col. T. P. B. Tornau, D.S.O., 1,000l.
Second in Command,
Third in Command, Lieut.-Col. A. H. Coles, D.S.O., 800l.
Fourth in Command and Officer Commanding Indian Contingent, Lieut.-Col J. T. Evatt, 800l.
Secretary, J. F. Cunningham, 550l.
Judicial Vice-Consul, E. de L. Collinson, 600l.
Seven 1st-Class Assistants, eight 2nd-Class Assistants, and eleven 3rd-Class Assistants.

