WEI-HAI-WEI.

The territory leased to Great Britain by China on the 1st July, 1898, at Wei-hai-wei comprises the islands of Len-kung-tan, and all the islands in the bay of Wei-hai-wei, and a belt of land 10 English miles wide along the entire coast line of the bay. It lies in latitude 37° 30' N. longitude, 122° 10' E., and is the most eastern harbour on the north coast of the Shantung peninsula. The bay is 6 miles broad, and 3 to 4 deep, and easy of access. The Island of Len-kung-tan, which is 2 miles long and 1 to 4 of a mile broad, forms a protection to the anchorage. The town Wei-hai-wei, enclosed by a wall, stands on the mainland opposite the island. The population of the mainland are principally fishermen and agriculturists. Wei-hai-wei is a naval station, and is administered under the supervision of the Admiralty. The following is the convention between the United Kingdom and China, signed at Peking on the 1st July, 1898, and confirmed by ratifications exchanged at London on 5th Oct., 1898:—
In order to provide Great Britain with a suitable naval harbour in North China, and for the better protection of British commerce in the neighbouring seas, the Government of His Majesty the Emperor of China agree to lease to the Government of Her Majesty the Queen of Great Britain and Ireland Wei-hai-wei, in the province of Shantung, and the adjacent waters, for so long a period as Port Arthur shall remain in the occupation of Russia.

The territory leased shall comprise the Island of Lin Kung, and all the islands in the Bay of Wei-hai-wei, and a belt of land 10 English miles wide along the entire coast-line of the Bay of Wei-hai-wei. Within the above-mentioned territory leased Great Britain shall have sole jurisdiction.

Great Britain shall have in addition the right to erect fortifications, station troops, or take any other measures necessary for defensive purposes at any points on or near the coast of the region east of the meridian, 121° 40' east of Greenwich, and to acquire on equitable compensation within that territory such sites as may be necessary for water supply, communications, and hospitals. Within that zone Chinese administration will not be interfered with, but no troops other than Chinese or British shall be allowed therein.

It is also agreed that within the walled city of Wei-hai-wei Chinese officials shall continue to exercise jurisdiction, except so far as may be inconsistent with naval and military requirements for the defence of the territory leased.

It is further agreed that Chinese vessels of war, whether neutral or otherwise, shall retain the right to use the waters herein leased to Great Britain.

It is further understood that there will be no expropriation or expulsion of the inhabitants of the territory herein specified, and that if land is required for fortifications, public offices, or any official or public purpose, it shall be bought at a fair price.

This Convention shall come into force on signature. It shall be ratified by the Sovereigns of the two countries, and the ratifications shall be exchanged in London as soon as possible.

In witness whereof the Undersigned, duly authorised thereto by their respective Governments, have signed the present Agreement.

Done at Peking in quadruplicate (four copies in English and four in Chinese), the 1st day of July, in the year of our Lord 1898, being the 15th day of the 5th moon of the 21st year of Kuang Hsu.

(L.s.) Claude M. MacDonald.

(L.s.) (Seal of the Chinese Plenipotentiary.)

