WESTERN PACIFIC.

High Commission.

The office of High Commissioner in, over, and for the Western Pacific Islands, was created by an Order in Council, cited as the Western Pacific Order in Council of 1877, for the purpose of better carrying out the provisions of the Pacific Islanders' Protection Acts, 1872 and 1875, and to provide a Civil Court for the settlement of disputes between British subjects living in these islands.

The jurisdiction of the High Commissioner extends over all islands in the Western Pacific not being within the limits of the Colonies of Fiji, Queensland, or New South Wales, and not being within the jurisdiction of any civilised power, and includes the Southern Solomon Islands, the Gilbert and Ellice Islands, the New Hebrides, the Tongan or Friendly Islands, the Samoan or Navigators' Islands, and the various small groups of Melanesia. In 1893 a new Order in Council was issued, known as the Pacific Order in Council, 1893, in accordance with which the High Commissioners' Jurisdiction is extended to foreigners and (in most cases) to natives residing in British settlements or protectorates within the limits of the Order. The expenses of the High Commission are met from Imperial funds, Class V, vote 3, the amount provided in the estimates for 1898-99 being 2,190l.

The Chief Justice of Fiji, and every other Judge for the time being of the Supreme Court, is by virtue of his office a Judicial Commissioner, and where the attendance of the Chief Justice or other Judge of the Supreme Court is impracticable, the High Commissioner may appoint a Judicial Commissioner for particular purposes or for a particular time.

Deputy Commissioners are appointed by the High Commissioner on behalf of Her Majesty.

The High Commissioner's Court consists of the High Commissioner, the Judicial Commissioners, and the Deputy Commissioners, and in it is vested all her Majesty's civil and criminal jurisdiction exercisable in the Western Pacific Islands.

The Court of a Judicial Commissioner has powers similar to those of the Superior Courts of England, and the Deputy Commissioners have civil jurisdiction in Common Law, Equity and Bankruptcy, with a limited jurisdiction in Probate, and have a criminal jurisdiction in respect of offences not punishable with seven years penal servitude or upwards.

With some few exceptions all decisions of the High Commissioner's Court may be appealed against to the Supreme Court of Fiji.

For the purpose of better carrying out the provisions of the Pacific Islanders' Protection Acts, 1872 and 1875, and in order to deal with cases occurring where there is no resident Deputy Commissioner, certain officers in command of her Majesty's ships of war on the Australian station have been appointed Deputy Commissioners.

In addition to the other means of preserving order the High Commissioner has certain special powers for the deportation of persons whose proceedings endanger the peace of the Islands.

High Commissioners.

1877 Sir Arthur Gordon, G.C.M.G.
1878 John Gorris (acting).
1879 Sir A. Gordon, G.C.M.G.
1882 Sir G. W. Des Voeux, K.C.M.G. (acting).
1883 J. B. Thurston, C.M.G. (Asst. High Com.)
1884 Sir G. W. Des Voeux (acting).
1885 W. Macgregor, C.M.G. (Act. Asst. High Com.)
1885 J. B. Thurston, C.M.G. (Asst. High Com.)
1887 Sir C. B. H. Mitchell, K.C.M.G.
1887 Dec., H. S. Berkeley (acting).
1888 Feb., Sir J. R. Thurston, K.C.M.G.
1893 Jan., H. S. Berkeley (Asst. High Com.)
1893 May, Sir J. B. Thurston, K.C.M.G.
1895 Mar., H. S. Berkeley (Asst. High Com.)
1897 Sir G. T. M. O'Brien, K.C.M.G.

Establishment.

High Commissioner, Sir G. T. M. O'Brien, K.C.M.G., 300l. (in addition to salary as Governor of Fiji).

Chief Judicial Commissioner, Sir H. S. Berkeley, Kt., 300l. (in addition to salary as Chief Justice of Fiji).

Registrar, J. Langford, 50l. (in addition to Fiji salary).

Secretary to High Commission, Merton King, 400l.

Deputy Commissioner in Tonga, R. B. Leefe, 440l. and quarters, and 50l. as Vice-Consul.

Deputy Commissioner in Samoa, and for the Union Group, E. G. B. Maxse, 100l., and 700l. as Consul. (H. Hunter, acting).

Deputy Commissioner and Resident, Gilbert and Ellice Groups, W. T. Campbell, 400l. and quarters (paid from Protectorate Funds).

European Assistant, T. C. T. Potts, 175l.

Deputy Commissioner and Resident, Solomon Islands, C. M. Woodford, 500l.

European Assistant, A. D. Mahaffy, 200l.

PRINCIPAL GROUPS UNDER THE HIGH COMMISSIONER.

The Tongan, or Friendly Islands, are situated between the 15th and 23rd degrees of west longitude. The islands are most of them of coral formation, but include some active volcanoes, notably Tofua, Kao, and Niuafouo (Good Hope Island); the natives belong to the Polynesian race, and are closely allied to the natives of New Zealand, Tahiti, Samoa, and the Sandwich Islands. The islands are very rich in coconuts; and copra (the dried kernel of the nut) forms the principal export. Bananas and oranges are also exported from Vavau, in the northern part of the group. There is regular steam communication with Auckland (1,000 miles distant), Sydney (1,850 miles), and Fiji, and sailing vessels run between Tonga and Fiji (200 miles). Sailing vessels carry the copra to Europe.

The late king, George Tubou, was the first of its chiefs or kings to establish an effective government over the whole of Tonga, and his rule on the whole was fairly successful. The king is assisted by a native parliament and a privy council. With the exception of a few Europeans in the Customs, Education, and Medical Departments, the whole of the government officers are Tongans. The tariff resembles that of Fiji.
and licences are charged for carrying on stores and trades. The revenue and expenditure are each about £16,000 per annum. According to the official returns the imports and exports were:

| Year | Imports | Exports |
|------|---------|---------|
| 1889 | £45,240 | £80,300 |
| 1890 | £28,852 | £45,325 |
| 1891 | £51,299 | £75,400 |
| 1892 | £51,266 | £53,957 |
| 1893 | £64,692 | £79,223 |
| 1894 | £82,330 | £67,632 |
| 1895 | £87,240 | £113,240 |
| 1896 | £90,915 | £91,602 |
| 1897 | £74,561 | £64,391 |
| 1898 | £35,175 | £39,464 |

but the value of the copra exported is about 20 per cent. too high. The native population is about 19,196; the European about 333. The climate may be considered a healthy one. The thermometer ranges between 53 and 93 degrees Fahrenheit.

There are three Churches, viz., the Wesleyan Mission Church (established over 60 years), with at present about 3,000 adherents only; the Wesleyan "Free Church of Tonga," with about 15,000 adherents; and the Roman Catholic, with about 3,000 adherents. The Free Church was established in 1885, and considerable persecution was inflicted on the adherents of the Mission Church, generally styled "Fakongo," i.e., subordinate to the foreign Church. In January, 1887, an attempt was made by some especll natives, victims on the life of Mr. Shirley Wildman Baker, the Premier, an ex-Wesleyan Missionary. Six persons charged with complicity in the attempt were shot. The attempt was made the pretext for increased persecution of the "Fakongos," or members of the Wesleyan Mission Church, whose houses were pillaged, and who were beaten with clubs and whips till they declared their adhesion to the "Free Church." About 100, whom no ill-usage could induce to abandon the Mission Church, were ordered to be deported to Pylstart Island, a barren inhospitable islet south of Tonga; but they were finally allowed to go to Fiji. Shortly after an inquiry was made into the causes of the disturbances by Sir Charles Mitchell. At this juncture the allegation that the attempt on Mr. Baker's life was due to a "Fakongo" conspiracy was abandoned, and a letter written by Mr. Baker, purporting to be signed by the king, was addressed to Sir Charles Mitchell, promising an amnesty to political prisoners and freedom of worship. The services in the Mission Church at once recommenced.

In 1890 complaints were made that freedom of worship was still being interfered with; that persons were deprived of their lands and unjustly imprisoned on account of their adherence to the Wesleyan Church; and Tongan officials denied that the king had written to Sir Charles Mitchell promising to accord freedom of worship. Sir John Thurston therefore made a further inquiry, and finding that Mr. Baker was not the principal cause of the wrongs endured by the Wesleyans, he, in accordance with the power conferred on the High Commissioner by the Western Pacific Orders in Council, issued an Order prohibiting Mr. Baker from being within the group for a term of two years from the 17th July, 1890. A few days before the issue of the Order, the king, on the request of the leading chiefs, had dismissed the Premier from office, and a fresh Government was formed with a native Premier (Tukuaho). Under the new Government the fullest freedom of worship was allowed, and the exiles were recalled from Fiji, the king having requested Sir John Thurston to make the necessary arrangements for their return.

King George Tubou died on 18th February, 1893, and was succeeded by his great-grandson, George Taufaahau, under the title of George Tubou II. The present Premier is Josateki Toga. All the natives are taught to read and write, and higher education is provided by colleges established by the Government and by the Wesleyan Mission.

British subjects are subject to the jurisdiction of the Tongan Court only for offences against Tongan law relating to customs, taxes, quarantine and local police, not recognized as offences against British law. In other respects they are subject to the jurisdiction of the Court of the High Commissioner.

By the Convention of 14th November, 1899 (see under Samoan Islands) Germany renounced all rights over Tonga Islands, including Vavau, and over the Savage Islands.

The Samoan or Navigator Islands are situated between the 13th and 15th parallels of south latitude, and the 169th and 174th degrees of west longitude. The inhabitants, about 25,000 in number, belong to the Polynesian race. The islands, which are of volcanic origin, are very fertile. The principal export is copra, but cotton, coffee, and bananas are also exported. A considerable portion of the land has been aliened, part of which is cultivated by British and German residents. The Hamburg Commercial and Planting Company of the South Seas has extensive plantations, and also has at Samoa its principal depot for South Sea trade.

No effective Government had been established before 1889. The late King Malletoa was recognised as king in 1879, and Tamasese his principal opponent, was given the title of Vice-King. In 1884, Tamasese formed a party to depose Malletoa and place himself on the throne. The German Government, which was displeased with Malletoa for refusing to ratify a treaty giving Germany a preponderating influence in the affairs of Samoa, favoured Tamasese's pretensions. In 1886 a commission was appointed consisting of commissioners from Germany, Great Britain, and the United States, with a view to arrive at an agreement respecting Samoan affairs. After the commissioners had reported to their respective Governments, a conference was held at Washington, but no agreement was arrived at. In 1887 Tamasese, with the assistance of the German forces, obtained possession of the seat of Government; and Malletoa, having surrendered himself to the German Consul-General, was deported in a German man-of-war to West Africa, whence he was afterwards removed to the Marshall group. An attempt was then made to organise an efficient government throughout Samoa under Tamasese. Herr Brandis being sent from Europe, but after a little while the adherents of Malletoa, under the leadership of his relative Mataafa, took arms against Tamasese and occupied a position close to Apia, the seat of Government. In December, 1888, at the instance of the German Consul, an ineffectual attempt was made to dislodge Mataafa by an armed party from German men-of-war. The German Government having disapproved the action of their Consul, proposed that a fresh conference should be held.
A conference was accordingly held at Berlin, and a convention arrived at between Germany, Great Britain, and the United States with regard to the future government of Samoa. By adherence to this convention, Malietoa was reinstated as king, and a Supreme Court of Samoa was constituted, with a Chief Justice appointed by the three Powers. The Chief Justice is also the king's principal legislative adviser. Further disturbances took place in 1893, and the three powers were compelled to intervene, and Mataafa and some of his followers were removed from the Group to the Marshall Islands.

In the summer of 1898, the consent of the Treaty powers was obtained to the return of Mataafa and his followers, under a pledge of loyal obedience to the existing government. On the 23rd August, 1898, King Malietoa died somewhat suddenly, and the Consuls of the Treaty Powers assumed the direction of affairs pending the election of his successor (December 1898).

In consequence of continued internal disturbances and difficulties in connection with the election of a new king, commissioners were sent out by the three Powers, and shortly after their return a convention was concluded between Great Britain and Germany, dated the 14th November, 1899, for the settlement of this and other questions, providing as follows:—

"Great Britain renounces in favour of Germany all her rights over the islands of Upolu and of Savaii, including the right of establishing a naval and coaling station there, and her right of extra-territoriality in those islands.

"Great Britain similarly renounces, in favour of the United States of America, all her rights over the island of Tutuila and the other islands of the Samoan group east of 171° longitude east of Greenwich."

The London Missionary Society, the Wesleyan Mission of Australasia, and the Roman Catholic Society of Mary have all established churches in Samoa, the adherents of the first named being the most numerous. English and German schools are established in Apia.

Apia, the capital town, has about 350 European inhabitants. The climate is not good, and the heat is frequently oppressive. But plantations situated a few hundred feet above the sea are not unhealthy.

There is regular steam communication with Auckland (distance 1,600 miles) Sydney (2,450 miles), and Fiji (450 miles).

The Union Group consists of three small islands, Eua, Safota, and Nukumano, about 9° S. latitude and 172° W. longitude. The islands are coral atolls, and the principal article of trade is copra. The natives are of Polynesian race, and are over 1,000 in number. They are ruled by their own chiefs with the assistance of native councils. A British Protectorate has been proclaimed over this group. The inhabitants are either adherents of the London Missionary Society or Roman Catholics.

The Ellice and Gilbert Groups consist of a series of coral atolls lying between 5° S. latitude and 10° S. latitude, and 170° to 180° E. longitude. The principal export is copra. The natives are of Malayo-Polynesian race, and number about 30,000; and are most of them adherents of American missions or of the London Missionary Society. The islands are governed by kings and chiefs, who are assisted by councils of chiefs and commoners. Labourers go for periods of three years to Fiji and Tahiti, and have also been recruited for Mexico. These groups have now been placed under British protection. Courts of law have been established amongst the natives, and a revenue is obtained from native contributions and trade licenses, which it is expected will cover the cost of maintaining a regular government in the islands. The efforts of Mr. C. R. Swayne, the first British Resident, and of his successor Mr. W. T. Campbell, to establish an efficient system of administration have met with considerable success. An agreement has been entered into with a steamer firm for the establishment of regular steam communication between these islands and Fiji, and in 1899 another regular steamer, which includes these islands in her round tour, commenced running from Sydney.

The Southern Solomon Islands consist of the islands of New Georgia, Guadalcanar, Makira, San Cristoval, Rennell, Bellona, and Stewart's Island, and smaller islands in the vicinity of the above, lying between the 74th and 18th degrees of south latitude, and the 150th and 153rd degrees of east longitude. By the convention between Great Britain and Germany of 14th November, 1899, Germany recognised as failing to Great Britain those of the Solomon Islands, then belonging to Germany, which are situated to the east and north-east of Bougainville (which latter belongs to the German territory, with the islands of Buka forming part of it). Choiseul and Isabel thus came within the British sphere. The natives are Melanesians. Stations have been established by the Melanesian Mission, but the converts are not numerous. The natives are treacherous; most of them are cannibals, and many of them are head-hunters. In 1899, the missionary was murdered by a "head-hunter," while attempting the ascent of Mount Lammas, in Guadalcanal, were attacked and severe loss of life ensued. There are a few resident traders, mostly of British nationality. A large number of natives used to go to work on plantations in Queensland, Fiji and Samoa, returning after the expiration of three years; but the number is less than formerly. The principal articles of trade are copra, pearl shell, and timber. The pearl shell is very good one. These islands were placed under British protection in 1893, and a Resident has now been appointed. His headquarters are at Tulagi, a small island on the north side of Guadalcanal. There is a fairly regular steam communication with Sydney, New South Wales.

The Santa Cruz Islands are situated between the Solomons Islands and the New Hebrides Group. The natives are Melanesians, and are mostly adherents of the Melanesian Mission. The principal trade is in copra. These islands, together with the Duff and Reef Groups, Cherry, Mitre and Tucup Island, were in 1898 included in the Southern Solomons Protectorate, and are now subject to the Regulations under which that Protectorate is administered.

The New Hebrides Group lies between the 12th and 20th degrees of south latitude, and the 165th and 170th degrees of east longitude. The natives are Melanesians, but in many places there is an admixture of Polynesian blood. The population has been estimated from 100,000 to 140,000, but the Mission returns place it at only 50,000. Missions have been established by the Melanesian Missionary Society, by the Presbyterian church of Australia, and by the Roman Catholic Church. The larger number of the natives are still cannibals. Life is, however, safer than in the Solomon Islands. Native
labourers go to Queensland, Fiji, Samoa, and New Caledonia; but in much smaller numbers than formerly. There is a European population of about 180, mostly British or French. French and Australian companies have been formed for trading and planting purposes. A British steamer runs regularly between Sydney and the group, and a French steamer also runs from New Caledonia. The principal export is copra and plantation coffee, timber, and sulphur are also exported. The climate of most of the islands is bad, and malarial fever is prevalent. A joint commission, consisting of British and French naval officers, has been appointed to protect the lives and property of British and French subjects, and to maintain order.

---

COOK OR HERVEY ISLANDS PROTECTORATE.

Administration.

The Cook Islands were declared to be under British protection in October, 1888, by Captain Bourke, of H.M.S. "Hyacinth," and the Hervey Islands, Manua, Anuter and Takutia by Commander Nicolls, of H.M.S. "Cormorant," in June, 1889.

The Resident is paid by the Government of New Zealand, and reports direct to the Governor of that Colony. The first British Resident, Mr. F. J. Moss, who was appointed in 1890, succeeded in 1891 in arranging for the establishment of an Elective Federal Parliament to make laws for the whole group. Each island, however, continues to enjoy self-government in such purely local affairs as it can properly manage for itself. The Federal Executive Council or Government is composed of the Ariki, or Kings and Queens, who are also the principal landowners. The chief of these, Queen Makena, Ariki of Avarua, is the nominal head of the Government. A Supreme Court has been established, and a law has been passed regulating the sale of intoxicants, and imposing a general ad valorem duty of 10 per cent. on imports. All laws and administrative acts are subject to the approval of the Resident, who is also a Deputy and Judicial Commissioner for the Western Pacific, and Chief Justice of the High Court of the Cook Islands.

Description.

The Cook Islands are about 1,700 miles from Auckland by steamer. The most southerly, Mangaia, is in latitude 21° 47' south, and the most northerly, Aitutaki, in 18° 15' south. Rarotonga, the most westerly, is in 160° west, and Mauke, the furthest to the east, lies in 157° west longitude. The group consists of seven islands—Mangaia, Atiu, Mauke, Mitiao, the Hervey Islands proper, Aitutaki, and Rarotonga. The so-called Hervey Islands are an atoll, with the usual low islets on the surrounding reef, and are frequented by the natives from Aitutaki to make copra from the coconuts, which grow luxuriantly and without care in such positions.

Rarotonga is the most important, being the only island in the group with harbours. There are three small harbours in the coral reef with which this island is fringed. The best of these, Avarua, is the centre of trade for the group. There is also good anchorage outside the reef. Rarotonga is very beautiful and fertile, having a volcanic surface soil with coral subsoil. The island is small—about 25 miles in circuit—but the central hills rise to a height of nearly 3,000 feet. Water is consequently good and abundant. The climate is good and unusually cool. The native population is over 2,000. The foreign residents number some 50 adult males, engaged in trade or planting. They are chiefly British, with a mixture of Americans, Germans, French, and Chinese. There is a resident German missionary and a native school in which teachers are trained for mission service in other islands in connection with the London Missionary Society. Several of these teachers have for some time past been doing good service in other Pacific Islands, and in New Guinea.

Mangaia is of about the same size as Rarotonga, but chiefly a coral formation, and less fertile. The climate is equally good, but the hills do not reach 500 feet in height. The population is about 2,000, with only 4 Europeans who are engaged in trade. There is a resident English missionary and native school.

Aitutaki is smaller than Mangaia, but of the same character. It is surrounded by an ocean coral reef as well as a shore reef. There is a narrow passage through the reef suitable for whaleboats only. Population, native, 1,500, with only one European trader. There is also a resident English missionary and native school.

Atiu, Mauke, and Mitiao are all under the king of Atiu. Atiu resembles Aitutaki, but Mauke and Mitiao are smaller. The joint populations are about 1,800. There are only two foreign residents, and the missionaries in charge are native teachers from Rarotonga.

Communication within each island is entirely by roads or tracks. They have no river nor coastal traffic. Between the islands communication is almost entirely by sailing vessel, and is very uncertain and irregular. From Tahiti come trading vessels, and also from San Francisco. The only steam communication is by vessel of the Union Steamship Company of New Zealand on her trip from Auckland to Tahiti, calling at Rarotonga once in four weeks. This vessel also calls at other islands of the group when there is sufficient cargo to warrant detention.

Productions.—Coffee, copra, oranges, limes, cotton, pineapples and bananas, and all tropical fruits flourish luxuriantly. Orange and lime trees produce abundantly, and of excellent quality, and all kinds of native food—taro, breadfruit, kumeras, yams, bananas, and the indigenous plaintain, are fine and plentiful. Many products of a temperate clime do well, and cattle, except sheep, thrive well on an indigenous species of canch or wire grass.

Trade.

The principal exports* of Cook Islands produce in 1898 were copra 4,505l., oranges 3,884l., and coffee 2,389l.; total exports 11,209l., as compared with 21,751l. in 1897. The decrease was due to the practical failure of the coffee crop and the ravages of the black aphid among the oranges. The total imports was 18,155l. The Federal revenue for 1897–98 was 1,379l. Expenditure 1,439l.

British Resident, Lieut.-Col. W. E. Gudgeon.

---

