THE GOLD COAST.

THE GOLD COAST COLONY.

Situation and Native Tribes.

The Gold Coast Colony, with Ashanti, the Protected Northern Territories, and the British mandated territory of Togoland, is situated on the Gulf of Guinea, between 3° 7' W. long. and 1° 14' E. long., and is bounded on the west by the French colony of the Ivory Coast, on the east by the French mandated territory of Togoland, on the north by the French Colony of the Upper Volta, and on the south by the sea.

The area of the Colony is 23,490 square miles, of Ashanti, 24,560, of the Northern Territories, 30,600, and of the British mandated territory of Togoland, 13,040.

The Colony is inhabited by a large number of tribes, whose customs and forms of government are of a more or less similar character. Each tribe has its own head chief and every town or village of the tribe a chief or headman.

The head chiefs and chiefs form the council of the tribe, and assist in dealing with matters affecting its general welfare. The succession to the chiefs' stools is for the most part in the female line, the heir to the stool being selected from among the sons of the occupant's sisters, his brothers and the male off-spring of his aunts on the father's side.

The principal sea coast tribes are the following:—Apollonia, Ahanta, Shama, Komenda, Elmina, Cape Coast or Fanti, Winneba, Assin Gomoa, Ga, Adangme, Awuna, Agbosome and Afiuo.

In the interior of the Colony the principal tribes are:—Aowin, upper and lower Wasaw, Sefwi, upper and lower Denkera, Tufel, Assen, Esikuma, Ajumako, Akim Abuakwa, and Akim Kotoku, Akwapim, eastern and western Krobo, Akwamu, Krep, Shai and Ningo.

A number of different languages and dialects are spoken, the principal being, Twi, Fanti, Ewe and Ga; but the use of English is widespread.

For the purposes of administration the Colony is divided into three provinces, each presided over by a Provincial Commissioner. These Provinces are further divided into districts, presided over by District Commissioners. Most of these Officers perform judicial duties as magistrates in addition to being in administrative charge of their districts. The districts are as follows:

1. Western province:—Districts—Axim, Ankobra, Tarkwa, Sekondi-Dixcove, Sefwi and Aowin.
2. Central province:—Districts—Cape Coast, Saltpond, Winneba, Western Akim.
3. Eastern province:—Districts—Accra, New Juaben, Akwapim, Volta River, Keta-Ada, Akim-Abuakwa, Kwahu, Ho (Togoland).

History.

It is said that as early as the reign of Edward I. (1272-1307) English navigators made voyages to the Gold Coast, and that a hundred years later French adventurers reached the coast, who, about 1364, built several lodges or forts, one being at Elmina, parts of which are supposed to have been subsequently incorporated in the present castle there. No definite evidence however exists to support these claims, although it is quite possible they are both correct; indeed, the natives until quite recently used to point out a hill near Takoradi as the site of a French fort built there many years ago. For our earliest knowledge of the Gold Coast we are indebted to the Portuguese navigators of the later years of the 14th and first part of the 16th centuries. They had been slowly extending their voyages down the West Coast of Africa, and it is recorded that in 1471 Juan de Santerem and Pedro d'Escobar traded for gold in the neighbourhood of Elmina or Chanza. They made the first European settlement eleven years later, when an expedition under Diego d'Asumbuja built and garrisoned the fort San Jorge da Mina (Elmina), the materials for which he brought with him from Portugal. Several other settlements were founded, and the country was claimed for the King of Portugal by virtue of a Papal Bull granted in 1430, which gave to Portugal all the islands already discovered and all future discoveries in Guinea. This Bull was confirmed by Pope Sextus IV. a few years after the foundation of Elmina. The Portuguese remained in undisputed possession for over fifty years until British merchant adventurers commenced trading on the coast, the earliest voyages of which records remain being those of Thomas Windham and Antonio Anes Pintado, in 1553, John Lok, in 1554, and William Townson, in 1555, 1556 and 1558. The British made no settlements at this time and their trade soon lapsed altogether until the early years of the 17th century. The Dutch, however, who made their first appearance on the coast in 1595, rapidly became serious rivals of the Portuguese and practically terminated their occupation by capturing Elmina in 1637, and Fort St. Anthony at Axim in 1642. After the activities of the Elizabethan sailors and merchant companies had come to an end, the English connection with the Gold Coast was revived by the efforts of a series of merchant companies, the first of which, called the "Company of Adventurers of London trading into Africa" was founded in 1618, but did not enjoy a successful career. Another company was formed in 1631, which established the first British fort on the coast at Kormantin, and lodges at several other places. This company was engaged in the slave trade, as were also the other European nations. Its charter was renewed in 1651, but in
Finland, A. H. S. Capurro (Vice-Consul).
France, Morocco, L. C. P. Sandrier.
Germany, G. F. Imossi.
Greece, L. J. Imossi.
Holland, W. J. J. Thomson (Consul); W. S. Roscoe (Vice-Consul).
Italy, Signor Stefano Carrara (Consul-General); L. A. Carrara (Vice-Consul).
Japan, W. H. Smith, J.P.
Latvia, A. E. Imossi (Vice-Consul).
Liberia, H. F. Cardona.
Mexico, A. C. Rugeroni (Consul); E. Rugeroni (Vice-Consul).
Norway, J. Mackintosh; C. W. Savignon (Vice-Consul)
Paraguay, A. E. Ferrary.
Peru, G. Imossi (Vice-Consul).
Portugal, M. F. de Santos (Consul).
Roumania, H. J. King, J.P.
Siam, H. J. King; F. J. W. Porral (Vice-Consul).
Spain, L. Lopez Ferrer (Consul-General); Vice-Consul, C. Cañal Gomez-Imaz.
Sweden, J. Andrews Speed, J.P.
U.S. of America, R. L. Sprague.
Uruguay, M. G. Corsi, M.B.E., J.P.

THE GOLD COAST.

THE GOLD COAST COLONY.

Situation and Native Tribes.

The Gold Coast Colony, with Ashanti, the Protected Northern Territories, and the British mandated territory of Togoland, is situated on the Gulf of Guinea, between 3° 7' W. long. and 1° 14' E. long., and is bounded on the west by the French colony of the Ivory Coast, on the east by the French mandated territory of Togoland, on the north by the French Colony of the Upper Volta, and on the south by the sea.

The area of the Colony is 23,490 square miles, of Ashanti, 24,560, of the Northern Territories, 30,800, and of the British mandated territory of Togoland, 13,040.

The Colony is inhabited by a large number of tribes, whose customs and forms of government are of a more or less similar character. Each tribe has its own head chief and every town or village of the tribe a chief or headman.

The head chiefs and chiefs form the council of the tribe, and assist in dealing with matters affecting its general welfare. The succession to the chief's stools is for the most part in the female line, the heir to the stool being selected from among the sons of the occupant's sisters, his brothers and the male off-spring of his aunts on the father's side.

The principal sea coast tribes are the following:—Apollonia, Ahanta, Shama, Komenda, Elmina, Cape Coast or Fanti, Winneba, Assin Gomoa, Ga, Adangme, Awuna, Agbosome and Asifa.

In the interior of the Colony the principal tribes are:—Aowin, upper and lower Wassaw, Sefwi, upper and lower Denkera, Tufel, Assen, Ekuima, Ajumako, Akim Abuakwa, and Akim Kotoku, Akwapim, eastern and western Krobo, Akwamu, Krepri, Shai and Ningo.

A number of different languages and dialects are spoken, the principal being, Twi, Fanti, Ewe and Ga; but the use of English is widespread.

For the purposes of administration the Colony is divided into three provinces, each presided over by a Provincial Commissioner. These Provinces are further divided into districts, presided over by District Commissioners. Most of these Officers perform judicial duties as magistrates in addition to being in administrative charge of their districts. The districts are as follows:—

1. Western province:—Districts—Axim, Ankobra, Tarkwa, Sekondi-Dixcove, Sefwi and Aowin.
2. Central province:—Districts—Cape Coast, Saltpond, Winneba, Western Akim.
3. Eastern province:—Districts—Accra, New Juaben, Akwapim, Volta River, Keta-Ada, Akim-Abuakwa, Kwahu, Ho (Togoland).

History.

It is said that as early as the reign of Edward I. (1272-1307) English navigators made voyages to the Gold Coast, and that a hundred years later French adventurers reached the coast, who, about 1684, built several lodges or forts, one being at Elmina, parts of which are supposed to have been subsequently incorporated in the present castle there. No definite evidence however exists to support these claims, although it is quite possible they are both correct; indeed, the natives until quite recently used to point out a hill near Takoradi as the site of a French fort built there many years ago. For our earliest knowledge of the Gold Coast we are indebted to the Portuguese navigators of the later years of the 14th and first part of the 15th centuries. They had been slowly extending their voyages down the West Coast of Africa, and it is recorded that in 1471 Juan de Santerem and Pedro d’Escober traded for gold in the neighbourhood of Elmina or Chama. They made the first European settlement eleven years later, when an expedition under Diego d’Azumbuja built and garrisoned the fort San Jorge da Mina (Elmina), the materials for which he brought with him from Portugal. Several other settlements were founded, and the country was claimed for the King of Portugal by virtue of a Papal Bull granted in 1430, which gave to Portugal all the islands already discovered and all future discoveries in Guinea. This Bull was confirmed by Pope Sextus IV. a few years after the foundation of Elmina. The Portuguese remained in undisputed possession for over fifty years until British merchant adventurers commenced trading on the coast, the earliest voyages of which records remain being those of Thomas Windham and Antonio Anee Pintedo, in 1553, John Lok, in 1554, and William Townson, in 1555, 1556 and 1558. The British made no settlements at this time and their trade soon lapsed altogether until the early years of the 17th century. The Dutch, however, who made their first appearance on the coast in 1595, rapidly became serious rivals of the Portuguese and practically terminated their occupation by capturing Elmina in 1637, and Fort St. Anthony at Axim in 1642. After the activities of the Elizabethan sailors and merchant companies had come to an end, the English connection with the Gold Coast was revived by the efforts of a series of merchant companies, the first of which, called the “Company of Adventurers of London trading into Africa” was founded in 1618, but did not enjoy a successful career. Another company was formed in 1631, which established the first British fort on the coast at Kormantin, and lodges at several other places. This company was engaged in the slave trade, as were also the other European nations. Its charter was renewed in 1661, but in
Finland, A.
France, M.
Germany, G.
Greece, L. J.
Holland, W.
Roscoe (V)
Italy, Signor
L. A. Car.
Japan, W.
Latvia, A. E.
Liberia, H.
Mexico, A.
(Vice-Consul)
Norway, J.
(Consul)
Paraguay, A.
Peru, G. Im.
Portugal, M.
Roumania, I.
Siam, H. J.
Spain, L. L.
Consul, O.
Sweden, J. A.
U.S. of Amer.
Uruguay, M.

THE

The Gold Protected N
mandated to
Gulf of Guin
E. long., as
French colo
the French
the north b
Volta, and o
The area c
of Ashanti,
30,600, and
Togoland, 15
The Colon
tribes, who
ment are of
Each tribe h
or village of
The head
the tribe, a
affecting its
to the chief
female line,
from among
brothers and
the father's
The princ
ing:- Apoll
Elmina, Ca;
Gomoa, Ga;
Afiao.
In the in
tribes are:-
Sefwi, upper
Edikuma, A;
Kotoku, Ak;
Akwanu, K;

1 English is widespread.
1662 a new company was incorporated as the "Company of Royal Adventurers of England trading to Africa." Settlements were formed at Anomabu, Accra, and at Cabo Corso (Cape Coast), at which place the castle was built about this time by the English, although the Portuguese probably had a lodge there earlier. Three other European nations succeeded in acquiring territories on the Gold Coast, viz.:—The Swedes, the Brandenburgers, and the Danes. The first-mentioned built the fort of Christiansborg, near Accra about 1645, but were driven out by the Danes in 1657, and retired from the Coast. The Brandenburgers established "Fort Great Fredericksburg" at Princes River in 1683, and "Fort Dorothée" at Akwida in 1685, but their enterprise does not seem to have been prosecuted with much vigour, and was finally abandoned in 1720, their possessions falling into the hands of the Dutch. The Danes, however, after first selling the Fort at Christiansborg to the Portuguese, and re-buying it three years later, rapidly improved their position, building forts at several stations to the East of Accra, as far as Ada and Keta, and exercising a kind of Protectorate over Akwapim, and the Volta River district.

The third English Company was not successful. The Dutch traders spared no efforts to get rid of their rivals, and in consequence of their aggression, an expedition was sent by Charles II. In 1664, under the command of Captain Holmes, which recaptured Cape Coast, taken the previous year by the Dutch, and all the other Dutch forts, with the exception of Elmina and possibly Axim. In the following year, however, the Dutch Commander de Ruyter recaptured all the lost Dutch forts, with the exception of Cape Coast; and the treaty of Breda, 1667, left affairs in the Gold Coast in this condition. The fourth English Company was incorporated in the year 1672 under the name of the "Royal African Company of England." Under its influence English interests steadily advanced, and forts were established at Dixcove, Sekondi, Komenda, Anomabu, Tamtamkwei, Winneba, Accra. The abolition of the exclusive privileges which the Royal African Company enjoyed, led to its decline and eventual dissolution in 1752. By the Acts of Parliament 23 George II., c. 31, and 25 George II., c. 40, a fifth trading Corporation, called the "African Company of Merchants" was formed, the membership of which was open to all British traders on payment of a fee of 40/-, compensation being paid for its charter and property to the Royal African Company. An annual subsidy was granted by Parliament to the newly-formed Company, until 1821, when by the Act 1 & 2 George IV., c. 28, the Company was dissolved and its possessions vested in the Crown, and placed under the Government of the West African Settlement, the seat of government being at Sierra Leone.

In 1824, the Governor of Sierra Leone, Sir Charles Macarthy, on visiting Cape Coast Castle, found the neighbouring country of the Fantis in possession of the Ashantis. He formed the resolution of inciting the Fantis against their oppressors, and led an army of them, with a few disciplined soldiers, against the Ashantis at Insamankow, where, on the 24th of January, 1824, he was killed, and his force totally routed.

The war which ensued was ended by the victory of the English at Dodowa, near Accra, in 1826. Peace was formally concluded by a tripartite Treaty in 1831, between the English, the Fantis, and the Ashantis.

In the meantime, Her Majesty's Government had inclined to the policy of retiring from the coast altogether, and after the peace they actually transferred the government of the forts to the local and London merchants interested, who secured as their Governor Mr. George Maclean, a man of marked energy and capacity. This gentleman, with a force of no more than 100 men at command, and with a Government subsidy of only 4,000£ a year, contrived to extend and maintain the influence of his Government over the whole tract of country now known as the Gold Coast. In 1843, it having been suspected that the Merchant Government connived at the slave trade, the forts were resumed by the Crown, and a Lieutenant-Governor was appointed. Mr. Maclean was continued in the direction of native affairs, under the title of Judicial Assessor to the Native Chiefs, which post he held until his death in 1847.

Hitherto the forts of the various nations were intermixed with each other, and there was no defined limit as to where the influence of one or the other began or ended. The imposition of Customs duties was rendered difficult, if not impossible, by the existence of the free ports of a rival nation within a stone's throw, as it were, of the duty ports. On the 24th of January, 1850, by Letters Patent, the Settlements on the Gold Coast ceased to be dependencies of Sierra Leone, and in the same year, by the purchase of the forts and protectorate of the Danes, the Coast line from Christiansborg to Keta and the districts of Shai, eastern and western Krobo, Akwapim, Akwamu, and Krepi, were acquired by England. By a Commission dated the 19th February, 1856, the Gold Coast Settlements were reunited to the Colony of Sierra Leone under one Governor-in-Chief. In 1867, a convention was made with the Dutch by which the portion of the Coast lying to the west of the Sweet River, which flows into the sea between Cape Coast and Elmina, was allotted to Holland, England taking all the territory to the east of the river, and a customs union between the two nations was established. The Dutch, however, found many difficulties in the way of their occupation of the forts and possessions received from the English in exchange for those of their own lying to the East of the boundary line. The native tribes refused to recognise their authority, and the prospect before them was that of a long series of petty wars with no reasonable hope of profit to be gained in the future. The result was the convention made between England and Holland in 1871, by which the Dutch transferred all their forts and possessions on the Coast to the English, and Great Britain obtained at last the sole sovereignty and control of the territory from Half-Ashmie to Aflao. The forts were transferred on the 6th of April, 1872. The present extent and limits of the colony are defined in the Order in Council of 1906.

**Constitution.**

At the conclusion of peace in 1874, measures were taken for placing the government of the Gold Coast upon a footing of efficiency and security.

A new charter was issued, dated the 24th of July, 1874, separating the settlements of the Gold Coast and Lagos from the government of the West Africa Settlements, and erecting them into one colony under the style of the Gold Coast Colony, under a Governor-in-Chief, with an Administrator at Lagos. There was one Executive Council and one nominated Legislative Council for the two
settlements, and one Supreme Court. The charter of 1874 was superseded by Letters Patent dated the 23rd of January, 1883, and 13th January, 1886, respectively. By the latter instrument Lagos was separated from the Gold Coast and formed into a distinct colony. Provision was made for an Executive and Legislative Council, the members of both being nominated by the Crown. Four unofficial members were appointed to the Legislative Council.

By Royal Instructions dated 20th September, 1916, under Letters Patent of the same date, all previous Instructions were revoked and the Executive and Legislative Councils were reconstituted. The Executive Council was constituted by the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney General, the Treasurer, the Director of Medical and Sanitary Services, and the Secretary for Native Affairs, with the Governor as President. The Legislative Council was constituted by the members of the Executive Council and, in addition, the Comptroller of Customs, the Director of Public Works, the General Manager of Railways, and the Commissioners of the Eastern, Central and Western Provinces, as ex officio members, and such unofficial members as might be appointed by the Crown. By an Order in Council dated 8th April, 1925, Letters Patent and Royal Instructions dated 23rd May, 1925, the Legislative Council was reconstituted. It is now composed of the Governor, fifteen Official Members and fourteen Unofficial Members. The newly-constituted Legislative Council for the first time contains an elective element; provision having been made for the election of six Head Chiefs as Provincial Members of the Council, three Municipal Members to represent the towns of Accra, Cape Coast, and Sekondi, respectively, a Mercantile Member, and a Mining Member.

Municipal Government.

The Municipal Corporations Ordinance passed in 1924 provides for elected municipal councils and abolishes the official majority which was a feature of former municipal councils. This law comes into operation when applied to a particular municipality by Order-in-Council.

Law and Justice.

The Law of the Colony is the Common law, the doctrines of equity, and the statutes of general application in force in England, on the 24th July, 1874, modified by a large number of Local Ordinances passed since that date. The Criminal Law was codified in 1892, and the civil and criminal procedure are regulated by the Supreme Court and Criminal Procedure Ordinances both originally passed in 1876.

Justice is administered by the Supreme Court, which is presided over by the Chief Justice and six Puisne Judges. Divisional Courts of the Supreme Court are held in different parts of the colony. There are also a large number of inferior Courts with limited criminal and civil jurisdiction, some of which are presided over by Police Magistrates and the remainder by Commissioners. The Supreme Court has an original civil and criminal jurisdiction, and also decides appeals from the inferior courts. The Chief Justice, and the Judges in their respective provinces have also powers of revision of the decisions of the Magistrates and Commissioners in criminal cases. Appeals from the Divisional Courts and from the Courts of the Provincial Commissioners in land cases lie to the recently established West African Court of Appeal.

Native customary law is administered in all the Courts, in so far as it is not incompatible with any ordinance, or rule, regulation, order, proclamation, or bye-law made under any ordinance for the time being in force in the Colony, and not repugnant to natural justice, equity and good conscience.

Native Tribunals, presided over by Paramount or Divisional Chiefs, are established throughout the Colony, with criminal and civil jurisdiction in cases where the parties are subject thereto. Such jurisdiction has been much increased by recent legislation, and certain judicial powers have also been conferred upon State Councils and Provincial Councils.

There is an appeal from the Tribunal of a Divisional Chief to that of a Paramount Chief, and from a Paramount Chief's Tribunal to the District Commissioner's Court; but, where a title to land is in dispute, the appeal lies from the Paramount Chief's Tribunal to the Provincial Commissioner's Court.

Prisons.

There are four convict and 24 local prisons. The convict prisons are at Accra, Sekondi, Kumasi and Tamale.

The following industries are carried on successfully:—carpentry, cabinet-making, tailoring, mat and basket making, boot and shoe making, weaving, farming, string and rope making, brick-making.

The Mark System, whereby the remission of one quarter of a sentence can be earned by hard work and good conduct, is applied to all persons sentenced to two years or more.

A Boys' Industrial Home under the control of the Salvation Army has been established at Ada.

Climate.

The climate although hot and damp, is cooler than that of most tropical countries situated in similar latitudes. The most adverse feature relative to the residence of Europeans is the very high relative humidity which only falls below 80° in the dry districts of the north and east and during the Harmattan. The average mean temperature is from 77°—81°, being greatest in the north and east and lowest in the forest area. Extremes of shade temperature have been 110° in Tamale and 49° at Kumasi.

The rainfall varies with the configuration of the country, being greatest in the south-western corner around Axim and least in the far north and coastal belt. There is the double wet season common to Tropical Africa corresponding to the double passage of the sun, the major rains in the south being in May and June and the lesser rains in September and October. In the Northern Territories intensity of the rains is reversed and in the extreme north the passages of the sun are so near to one another in date that there is only one wet season.

The most pronounced season is the Harmattan characterised by a dry north-east wind which blows from the Sahara carrying clouds of red dust during the period of cessation of the south-west monsoon. This occurs at the period when the sun is passing southwards to the spring solstice during January and February, and the feature is the terrific desiccation of the atmosphere. A drop of 63% of relative humidity has been experienced in 24 hours with a result that papers and books curl up and the skin appears parched and dry. The daily range of temperature is more than doubled and the period is very trying to Europeans. The maximum shade temperatures for 1929 were:—At Accra, 85-1° F.; Sekondi, 85-9° F.; Kumasi, 88-1° F.; and Tamale, 93-2° F. The rainfall was 35-85, 40-35, 57-63 and 51-26 inches respectively.
Mail and Steamship Services.

The African Steamship Company and the British and African Steam Navigation Company Limited, are under contract with the Postmaster-General for conveyance of His Majesty's mails between Liverpool and the west and South-west coasts of Africa.

Regular sailings are maintained between Liverpool and West African ports for mails, passengers and cargo. There are also regular sailings from London.

A mail steamer of these companies leaves Liverpool for Lagos once a fortnight, calling at Takoradi and Accra, the usual length of voyage being 14 to 15 days, and once a month for Calabar. The amalgamation of the Lagos and Calabar Services has restored mail and passenger services to almost pre-war level—the running sequence being three sailings with 7 days interval in four weeks.

Cargo steamers are despatched weekly from Liverpool, and twice monthly from London, calling at the principal Gold Coast ports. Length of voyage varies from 20 to 26 days. The London steamers call occasionally at Cardiff.

Cargo steamers are despatched monthly, or as inducement offers, from New York, calling at the principal Gold Coast ports outwards and homewards. Length of voyage varies from 30 to 35 days.

Cargo steamers are despatched from Hamburg weekly, calling at Rotterdam and Antwerp, for the principal Gold Coast ports. Length of voyage varies from 20 to 30 days.

Cargo steamers are despatched monthly, or as inducement offers, from Canada, calling at Sierra Leone outwards and frequently at Gold Coast ports homewards. Length of voyage, about 28 days.

Elder Dempster and Company, Limited, act as managers for these two companies, and the Agents in the Gold Coast are the West African Lighterage and Transport Company Limited.

Mail steamers of Chargeurs Reunis Line, sailing from Bordeaux, call at Accra and Takoradi, on the homeward voyage for passengers and cargo once a month. Cargo steamers call at regular intervals outwards and homewards. Local Agents:—F. and A. Swanzey, Lighterage Department, Branch of the United Africa Company.

Passenger and cargo steamers of Compagnie Francaise de Navigation a Vapeur (Cyp. Fabre), and Compagnie Marseillaise de Navigation a Caperou (Cie Fraissinet), sailing from Marseilles call frequently outwards and homewards at Gold Coast ports. Local Agents:—F. and A. Swanzey, Lighterage Department, Branch of the United Africa Company Limited.

Cargo steamers, with passenger accommodation, of the Barber Line (American West African Line) are despatched every three weeks from New York and monthly from the Gulf of Mexico, calling at the principal Gold Coast ports. These sailings are augmented during the Colony's cacao season to relieve congestion of cacao destined for America. The voyage from New York is now reduced to 28 days. Calls are also made at all ports to Loanda, including the Belgian Congo.

Venture-Weir West African Line maintains a monthly cargo service between the Continent and West African ports. The steamers of this line are owned by Messrs. Andrew Weir and Company (British). Local Agents:—F. and A. Swanzey, Lighterage Department, Branch of the United Africa Company Limited.

Cargo steamers of the United Africa Company Limited, with limited accommodation for passengers, are despatched from Liverpool and the Continent. There are about four sailings per month, and steamers call outwards at all Gold Coast ports, and call homewards as inducement offers. Local Agents:—F. and A. Swanzey, Lighterage Department, Branch of the United Africa Company Limited.

Cargo steamers of the Societe Navale de L'ouest sail monthly from Hamburg, Antwerp, Havre and Bordeaux and call at the principal Gold Coast ports. Homeward they call at continental ports as inducement offers. Local Agents:—Messrs. Anglo-Guinea Produce Company Limited, per F. and A. Swanzey, Lighterage Department, Branch of the United Africa Company Limited.

Cargo steamers of the Navigazione Libera Triestina Line sailing from Venice, Trieste, Naples, Genoa, Marseilles and Barcelona call at the principal Gold Coast ports once every month. Local Agents:—Messrs. Anglo-Guinea Produce Company Limited, per F. and A. Swanzey, Lighterage Department, Branch of the United Africa Company Limited.

Mail and Passenger steamers of the German African Lines (Woermann-Linie A.G., Deutsche Ost-Africa Linie, Hamburg-Amerika Linie (Afriko-Dienst), and Hamburg-Bremer (Afrika Linie) managed by the Woermann-Linie A.G. of Hamburg, sail from Hamburg to West African ports via Rotterdam, Boulogne s.m., and Southampton at about fortnightly intervals, calling at Freetown, Monrovia, Takoradi, Accra, Lagos, Port Harcourt, Victoria and Fernando Po. Three to four Mail and Passenger steamers to South and East Africa are despatched every month from Hamburg, running either via the Canary Islands and Capetown, or via the Mediterranean and Suez, and these steamers also call at Gold Coast ports.

Cargo steamers of above lines are despatched from Hamburg via Rotterdam, Antwerp and Havre six times in each month at regular intervals to African ports.

Representative for the Gold Coast:—Woermann-Linie, Resident Agent, Accra.

The Holland-West-Afrika-Lijn, Amsterdam, maintain freight and passenger services from Hamburg, Amsterdam, Boulogne and Bordeaux to the West African ports by four sailings monthly.

The passenger steamers are despatched monthly from Hamburg via Amsterdam, Boulogne (through tickets from Folkestone), reaching Takoradi in 13 days from Boulogne. Homewards they call at Accra and Takoradi and reach Europe via Freetown within 14 days.

Cargo steamers of this line are despatched three times a month from Hamburg, Amsterdam and once monthly from Bordeaux. Several of these boats have limited passenger accommodation. The length of the voyage varies from 17 to 27 days. Steamers of the Gold Coast Cameroon Express Service take about 17 days to reach Europe from the Gold Coast.

Most of these steamers call at Le Havre homewards, and passengers for the United Kingdom are transhipped to Southampton without additional charge. Local Agents:—West African Shipping Agency and Lighterage Company.

Harbours.

The Gold Coast was for many years at a great disadvantage in that it possessed no deep-water harbour. Jetties protected by breakwaters were built at Sekondi and Accra, for the use of surf boats and lighters.

Sekondi has been replaced by a deep-water harbour a few miles to the westward at Takoradi which was opened to shipping in 1928. The Harbour is 220 acres in extent and provides moorings for six ocean-going ships whilst four can be berthed alongside the main wharf, which contains a large manganese-loading transporter.
Internal Communications.

Railway communication consists of a main line running from Sekondi to Kumasi thence to Accra, a distance of 356 miles, with branches, Takoradi Junction to Takoradi (6 miles), Inchaban Junction to Inchaban (4 miles), Tarka to Prestee (18 miles) and Humi Valley to Kade (90 miles). All three lines are 3' 6" gauge. There is a branch line Accra to Weshinga (Accra Water Works), 10 miles in length, which is 2' 6" gauge.

The Railway revenue for the year 1929-30 was £1,183,085., and the working expenditure including provision for Renewals was £43,712. The total number of miles open for traffic on the 31st March, 1930, was 500, and the capital cost £9,180,448L

The mileage of motor roads maintained by the Public Works Department is 1,803 miles, as follows—

| Province          | Tarred Miles | Gravel Miles | Total Miles |
|-------------------|--------------|--------------|-------------|
| Accra and Eastern Province | 132         | 333          | 465         |
| Central Province  | 117         | 298          | 415         |
| Western Province  | 6           | 309          | 315         |
| Ashanti           | 160         | 171          | 331         |
| Northern Territories | —          | 277          | 277         |

Total: 415, 1,388, 1,803

The mileage of metalled and tarred roads now amounts to 415 miles. In addition to the 1,803 miles of motor roads which are under the control of the Public Works Department, there are some 3,900 miles of motorable roads which have been constructed and are maintained by the Chiefs. These roads are all motorable during the dry season and have opened up the country in all directions to motor traffic, and ferries have been installed and bridges built whenever necessary.

The principal waterway is the Volta River, which rises in the Kong Mountains and flows into the sea at Ada, after a course of 200 miles. It is navigable for light draught launches as far as Akosombo, and, with the exception of the Krobo rapids, can be used for canoe traffic during certain seasons of the year as far as Yeji. The Ankobra River is navigable for many months of the year by surf-boats and light draught launches for a distance of 50 miles. The Tano, connected with Half Assini, by the main lagoon, and by a tramway, three miles in length, is navigable for light draught launches and canoes as far as Tanoso, a distance of about 60 miles.

Rapids at Sutri prevent this river being further utilised.

The old canoe ferry over the Volta at Senkye has been replaced by a stern wheel ferry capable of taking the largest cars and lorries.

The Government maintains a Motor Transport Service, which operates in centres where vehicles provided by private enterprise are unobtainable or more costly than a Government-owned fleet. The headquarters is at Accra, with branches at Sekondi, Kumasi and Tamale. The department also handles Government cargo and officials' baggage and stores arriving by sea and arranges the coastwise shipping of Government personnel and stores between ports within the Colony.

In addition to their departmental duties, the officers of the Transport Department assist in carrying out the provisions of the Motor Traffic Ordinance by acting as Testing and Certifying Officers.

Medical Facilities.

Medical Officers are stationed at all the principal centres of the Colony, Ashanti and the Northern Territories. The majority of these officers travel in their districts and give treatment in village dispensaries.

There are 7 European Hospitals in the Gold Coast: 5 in the Colony, 1 in Ashanti and 1 in the Northern Territories.

There are also 35 African Hospitals: 23 in the Colony, 5 in the Northern Territories, 5 in Ashanti and 2 in Togoland under British Mandate. Improvements are constantly being made, and 2 new hospitals are at present in course of erection.

There are in addition three Motor Travelling Dispensaries which do valuable work in the outlying districts.

The Gold Coast Hospital was opened at Accra in October, 1923, and does excellent and steady work and continues to grow in popularity with the native community. It contains over 200 beds and 18 cots which are nearly always occupied.

In the year 1929-30 it dealt with over 14,000 out, and 3,000 in-patients, and 671 major operations were performed. At the African Hospital, Kumasi, 19,000 out, and 2,000 in-patients were treated during the same period.

An up-to-date Maternity Hospital in charge of a Woman Medical Officer, and now containing 22 beds and 15 cots was opened in 1928 at Korle Bu in the immediate vicinity of the Gold Coast Hospital and is highly appreciated. The training of Midwives is carried on here.

In addition to the above there is a Laboratory Services Branch consisting of a central Medical Research Institute situated at Accra close to the Gold Coast Hospital with branches in important towns, and a Mobile Laboratory equipped for emergency or localized research. Valuable work in Research, Clinical pathology, etc., is carried on by this Branch.

Sanitation.

The Health Branch of the Medical Department is controlled by a Deputy Director of Health Service who is responsible to the Director of Medical and Sanitary Services. Medical Officers of Health are stationed in the most important towns in the Colony, Ashanti and the Northern Territories. All Medical Officers are charged with public health duties in their respective districts and in the more populous areas are assisted by European Superintending Sanitary Inspectors.

An increasingly important activity of the Health Branch is village sanitation, which in several areas, particularly in Ashanti, has gone ahead rapidly of recent years. The people are shown how to lay-out their villages on open lines and are instructed how to erect houses of a much improved type, and attention is paid to the improvement of village water supplies.

Birth and death registration is in force in 28 recognised registration areas, but is not generally applied. A birth-rate of 30.9 and a crude death-rate of 19.3 were returned for the year 1929. The infant mortality rate is somewhat high the figure for Accra for the year 1930 being 135.

Maternity and Infant Welfare Centres in charge of Women Medical Officers have been established at Accra, Koforidua, Kumasi, Sekondi and Cape Coast. Medical inspection of school children is systematically carried out.

Posts and Telegraphs.

The mails exchanged fortnightly between the Gold Coast and other British Colonies on the West Coast and the United Kingdom are carried by the steamers of the British and African Steam Navigation Company and of the African Steamer Company. Mails
are exchanged over and with the French sphere of Togoland and with the French Ivory Coast; and direct mails from Hamburg are received fortnightly.

There are 71 Post Offices and 193 Postal Agencies, the distribution being effected principally by rail and motor. When this is impossible a runner service is employed. The rate for letter (1 oz.) within the Empire is 1½d., to the United States of America 1½d., elsewhere 3½d.

There are 4,298 miles of Telegraph Line Wire serving all the principal centres. The rate is 1/- for 12 words, and 1½d. per word in excess of 12.

There are 7,169 miles of double wire line and underground cable circuits in use, which link up 114 Exchanges and Call Offices throughout the country.

All passenger and cargo boats entering Takoradi Harbour are connected to the mainland telephone service and telegraph and phonogram system.

There are about 2,000 telephones including those in Government Offices in operation, and extensions to the system are in progress.

Parcel Post despatches are exchanged direct with the United Kingdom and with other British Colonies in West Africa, and the United States of America. Parcels for other countries are forwarded through the United Kingdom. The C.O.D. service from the United Kingdom is very extensive.

British Imperial Postal Orders are issued and paid, and an inland and foreign Money Order system is in operation.

A coastal radio-telegraph station at Takoradi transmits radio-telegrams at ½d. per word.

The Eastern Telegraph Company transmits messages by cable to any part of the world from Accra.

Education.

Education in the Gold Coast has hitherto largely been, and is now to a still greater extent, aided and controlled by Government, and all schools are open to inspection by officers of the Education Department. From the 1st January, 1927, a new Education Ordinance came into operation, the more important of its provisions having as their aim the compulsory registration of all teachers and the awarding of definite incrementally graded salaries according to the qualifications possessed by Africans engaged in teaching.

Other objects are to raise the quality of instruction in the schools, by the payment of grant according to the efficiency of the teachers in them, and the protection of children against "instruction" by well-meaning but ignorant persons under conditions which seriously militate against health and right progress.

Apart from a large number of non-aided primary schools, there are twenty-seven Government schools and 290 Assisted schools in the Colony, Ashanti, and the Northern Territories. The latest figures show that these Government and Assisted Primary Schools have an enrolment of 38,820 pupils, of which 8,691 are girls. The largest of the Missions working in these territories is the Presbyterian Church with 107 Assisted Schools followed next in order of size by the Ewe Presbyterian Church with 65 Assisted Schools.

In addition to the Government Primary Schools there are the Accra Government Technical School and four Junior Trade Schools in different parts of the country. They are all boarding schools established by Government for the purpose of giving instruction in the more common building and engineering trades with simple literary and technological training.

There are also training schools controlled by the departments concerned, e.g., Posts and Telegraphs, Agriculture and Forestry, and Surveys, where pupils are boarded and trained, being paid a salary while undergoing instruction.

Teachers intended for Government service and certain others receive free board and instruction in the Training Department of the Prince of Wales' College, Achimota.

Teachers and ministers are also trained at Wesley College, Kumasi, and at the Presbyterian Training College at Akropong, Akwapim.

The training of female teachers by Missions, under conditions of grant similar to those applying to male students at the Mission Colleges, has commenced.

There are two residential Secondary Schools at Cape Coast, both of which are Government aided, one being under the Wesleyan Mission and the other under the English Church Mission Local Authority.

The Roman Catholic, English Church, Wesleyan, and Presbyterian Missions each have residential Girls' Schools in which literary and domestic training is given.

Educational policy in the Northern Territories has, since the 1st April, 1926, been controlled by a different ordinance from that of the Colony proper, in order that the special needs and difficulties arising with a people who are only just beginning to come much into contact with other peoples of the Gold Coast, may receive due and proper consideration.

The Prince of Wales' College, Achimota, near Accra, which was opened in January, 1927, and is intended ultimately to provide a complete course of instruction for boys and girls from the Kindergarten stage up to the standard of the London Intermediate Examination. While keeping local conditions in view, is a boarding school open to pupils of all nationalities and religions. It is intended that the usual primary and secondary school subjects should be taught, with arts and science, and there will be agricultural, engineering, manual and domestic training. The College also trains teachers for Government and Assisted Schools. All teaching in the College is based on a vernacular foundation and in the lowest classes instruction is given in four African languages.

The College which was granted a separate Constitution on the 1st April, 1930, is now administered by a Council consisting partly of elected and partly of nominated members. The Gold Coast Government makes an annual grant to the College.

Currency and Banking.

Prior to 1912 and 1913 the currency consisted chiefly of British gold (comparatively rare), silver and copper. In 1912, subsidiary nickel-bronze coins (1½d., 3½d. and 6½d. pieces) were introduced, and in 1913 a special silver currency common to all the British West African Colonies of the same weight and fineness as the corresponding British coins. The coins issued are 2½, 1½, 6½, and 3½d. pieces. Owing to the great increase in the demand for currency and the difficulties in obtaining adequate supplies, it was found necessary in 1915 to make British Treasury Notes legal tender, and in 1916 special West African Currency Notes were introduced. 20s. and 10s. Notes are the only values now in circulation, 5l., 2s. and 1s. Notes having been withdrawn. In 1920, owing to the rapid disappearance of silver coins, an alloy coinage was introduced of the same denominations as the silver coins and silver has now practically been withdrawn from circulation. The special West Africa silver and alloy currency and the West African Currency Notes are under the management of the West African Currency Board and are secured by sterling securities held by the Board. Current British
gold and silver coins, British 20s. and 10s. Treasury Notes, West Africa Currency silver and alloy coins, West African Currency Notes, and West Africa nickel-bronze coins are all legal tender.

The Bank of British West Africa, Limited, opened at Accra on the 1st January, 1897, and now has branches at all the principal business centres in the Colony.

The Colonial Bank (now Barclay's Bank (Dominion, Colonial and Overseas) Ltd.) began business at Accra in 1917, and branches have now been opened at other centres. Both Banks have a savings department. In 1888, a Government Savings Bank was established which is now under Post Office management. On 31st December, 1929, the amount to the credit of depositors was £8,362l.

Accounts are kept in sterling.

Population.

The first attempt to take a census was made in 1891, which, however, covered the Colony only. Since then a census has been made at ten-year intervals, viz.:—1901, 1911 and 1921. Except in 1901, the whole of Ashanti and the Northern Territories have been included. In a country such as the Gold Coast, imperfect communications and lack of education make the holding of a complete census a matter of great difficulty and even now the figures cannot be considered absolutely accurate.

The resident population on census day, 1921, was as follows:—

|                |        |
|----------------|--------|
| The Colony     | 1,174,971 |
| Ashanti       | 406,640  |
| Northern Territories | 530,391 |

Total: 2,112,002

Of this total, 2,384 were non-Africans, the majority being British. The population of the British sphere of Togoland was 167,569, of whom 20 were non-Africans. The grand total therefore for the area administered by the Gold Coast Government was 2,299,961. There was also a maritime population of 1,528 in the various harbours on census day.

The African population of the chief towns was as follows:—

| Town          | Population |
|---------------|------------|
| Accra         | 38,049     |
| Kumasi        | 23,694     |
| Cape Coast    | 14,921     |
| Keta          | 9,839      |
| Sekondi       | 9,600      |
| Teshi         | 7,604      |
| Winneba       | 6,980      |
| Saltpond      | 6,342      |
| Nsawam        | 6,143      |
| Asamankose    | 5,413      |
| Koforidua     | 5,364      |

Trade and Industries.

The chief products of the Colony are cocoes, gold, diamonds and manganese. Palm oil, palm kernels, lumber, kola and copra are also shipped.

The cultivation of cocoes was started in Akwapim in 1879, and exports in 1891 realised £4l. Coffee at that time fetched a fair price, and it was not until 1896, when the price for the latter article fell so low as to make its cultivation at any distance from the coast unremunerative, that attention was paid to cocoes. Since that year the cocoes industry has made rapid strides. In 1900 the value exported was £27,280l., in 1918, £1,796,985l., and in 1920, £10,056,298l.

In 1921, although the value fell considerably to £4,764,067l., the quantity of cocoes exported exceeded the 1920 export by 8,422 tons. In 1928, 225,007 tons, valued at £11,229,512l., and in 1929, 238,068 tons, valued at £9,704,493l., were exported respectively.

There is a tax of ½d. of a penny per lb. on cocoes exported.

Gold has been exported from the Gold Coast more or less continuously since the discovery of the country by Europeans in the fifteenth century. Up to 1874, however, the industry was almost entirely in the hands of the natives. The first company for gold mining in West Africa was founded in 1874, but did little beyond exploration. A second company, formed in 1879, engaged in mining operations in the neighbourhood of Tarquah, and from that year the progress of mining enterprise is indicated by the rapid increase in the exports of gold bars, the result of European operations, as compared with those of gold dust, the produce of native mining. In 1899 there was a very remarkable development of the mining industry, which, though checked for a while by the disturbances in Ashanti, received a fresh impetus from the passing of the Concessions Ordinance in 1900, the progress of the railway, and general improvement in means of transport.

Gold is widely diffused throughout the Colony, Ashanti, and some parts of the Northern Territories, in quartz and alluvial deposits, while in Wassaw there is good conglomerate or banket formation which is now reported to extend to the Birrim District in the Eastern Province. The rivers are said to be rich in alluvial deposits. From the year 1903 (the first in which reliable statistics of production were kept) to 1921, the gold produced in the colony and Ashanti amounted to 5,062,267 fine ozs., valued at £21,504,750l. The highest annual production was in 1914, viz.:—410,656 fine ozs., valued at £1,744,498l. In 1928 the value of gold and gold dust exported was £684,815l. Bitumen is found along the banks of the river Bonni, in Apollonia and the stream Akiyikyiri, flowing into the Ehi lagoon near Half Assinie. Extensive deposits of Bauxite exist, the most important being situated near Mpraeso in the Kwahu district where a large quantity of high grade ore has been located. In the Eastern Province near Kibi diamonds have been found, and the alluvial is being worked. The diamond exports in 1925 were 77,313 carats, valued at £98,760l.; in 1928, 698,828 carats, valued at £584,279l.; and in 1929, 660,536 carats, valued at £584,613l. Small diamonds have also been found in other localities.

Manganese Ore exists in large quantities close to the railway line about 35 miles from the port of Takoradi. Shipments of the Ore reached 388,657 tons in 1925, and 408,224 tons valued at £748,286l. in 1929.

Modern facilities at the port of Takoradi for shipping large quantities of manganese ore were completed early in 1930.

The trade in products of the oil-palm has suffered severely in the last quarter of a century from the competition of cocoes, and except in certain localities, notably the Volta River District, the farming of this kind of produce is neglected. The potential wealth of the Gold Coast oil-palm however is great, and every encouragement is given to the chiefs to start new plantations.
Quantities and Values of the following Exports for 1929 were:

| Export          | Quantity       | Value     |
|-----------------|---------------|-----------|
| Cacao           | 238,068 Tons  | £9,704,493|
| Gold (raw)      | 225,386 Fine ozs. | 868,863   |
| Manganese Ore   | 408,224 Carats | 748,286   |
| Diamonds        | 660,536 Carats | 584,613   |
| Timber          | 1,430,230 Cubic feet | 160,364   |
| Kola Nuts       | 6,846,100 lbs. | 127,283   |
| Palm Kernels    | 6,569 Tons    | 98,447    |
| Rubber          | 648,861 lbs.  | 28,423    |
| Copra           | 1,236 Tons    | 21,216    |
| Palm Oil        | 596 Tons      | 16,830    |
| Fibre, Other kinds (Sisal hemp) | — | 5,419 |

The first in value of the imports in 1929 was cotton piece goods, followed by silk goods (including artificial silks) and motor cars, but there is a steady demand for provisions, spirits (potable) malt liquors and wine, motor spirit, hardware, tobacco (unmanufactured and cigarettes), machinery (all kinds), bags and sacks (empty), corrugated iron sheets, apparel, soap (common), cement, oil (illuminating), tyres for motor vehicles, and wood and timber (unmanufactured). The use of motor transport is expanding steadily; in 1929 the number of motor cars and lorries imported was 2,207.

Native manufactures are insignificant. Cloths are woven in many parts of the country, for the most part of English spun yarn, but in the northern districts occasionally of thread manufactured from the indigenous cotton plant. Narrow strips of four to six inches are woven on a rough hand loom, and stitched together to make clothes of various sizes. Gold and brass are worked by native smiths; canoes are made on the coast rivers; pottery for domestic purposes is made by hand, and wood-carving is done chiefly in Ashanti and Kwahu. Salt is roughly prepared from the lagoons between Accra and Quittah, and sent up country to the markets of the Northern Territories. Fishing is extensively carried on along the coast, and large quantities of sun-dried fish are sent to the villages and markets of the interior.

ASHANTI.

Ashanti is inhabited by a large number of confederated tribes, the principal of which are the Bekwai, Adansi, Kokofus, Nkwantas, Kumasis, Agunas, Mampons, Nasutas, Kumawus, Bompatas, Juabins and Ejisus. Each tribe has its own Head Chief, but from time immemorial the King of Kumasi was recognised as the King paramount of the Confederation.

In 1873 the King of Ashanti invaded the British Protectorate with a large army, and reached Elmina, where he was entirely defeated by the British forces under Colonel (afterwards Sir) Francis Festing. Later in the year Captain (afterwards Sir) John Glover was sent to the eastern districts of the Protectorate to organise the tribes in that quarter, for a flank movement against the Ashanti territory. At the same time Sir Garnet, (afterwards Viscount) Wolseley was despatched to the Gold Coast, with British and West Indian troops, native levies, and some seamen and marines, to operate against the Ashantis, starting from Cape Coast. On the 31st of January, 1874, he came into general engagement with the enemy at Amoafao, where he drove them from their position after desperate resistance. The next four days were employed continuously in fighting, until, on the evening of the 4th of February, the British force entered Kumasi. The King had fled to the bush. A few days later Sir John Glover also reached Kumasi. On the 13th, messengers sent by the King concluded a peace with Sir Garnet Wolseley at Fomana, which was afterwards signed with a pencil cross by King Kofi. By the Treaty of Fomana, the King of Ashanti renounced all claims on the Protectorate, promised to protect traders, to abandon human sacrifices, and to pay an indemnity of 50,000 ozs. of gold.

In 1894 Prempeh, who was then King of Kumasi, and had successfully fought against the Nkoranzas, who had revolted against his rule, threatened to attack the Atebubus. This attack was averted by the despatch of a force under Sir Francis Scott, and an ultimatum was then sent to Prempeh warning him not to enter British territory, and suggesting that he should acquiesce in the establishment of a Residency at Kumasi. No definite reply to this suggestion could be obtained, and a military expedition accordingly proceeded to Kumasi, to compel compliance with the demands of Her Majesty's Government. The expedition, under the command of Sir Francis Scott, entered Kumasi without resistance, January, 1896. Prempeh made submission, but, failing to comply with the terms dictated, was brought to the coast as a political prisoner and lodged in Elmina Castle, whence he was eventually deported to the Seychelles. A Resident was at the same time installed at Kumasi, and thus commenced an entirely new departure in the relations of the Gold Coast Colony with Ashanti.

In 1900 the Governor visited Kumasi, and was there besieged by the Ashantis, the town being closely invested. Provisions ran short, and a part of the garrison, with the Governor, cut their way out; the rest were relieved by Colonel (afterwards Sir J.) Willcocks, commanding the Ashanti Field Force, on 15th July, after severe fighting. The Ashantis were subsequently thoroughly routed at Abuosu.

An Order of the King in Council, dated September 26th, 1901, defined the boundaries of Ashanti, annexed it to His Majesty's Dominions, and provided for its administration under the Governor of the Gold Coast. Ashanti is under a Chief Commissioner, with Commissioners of Provinces and Districts under him. By a subsequent Order in Council of the 22nd of October, 1906, the boundaries between the Colony and Ashanti, and between Ashanti and the Northern Territories, were re-adjusted and defined, with due regard to tribal lands and natural features.

Ashanti is now divided into two provinces, the Eastern with headquarters at Kumasi and the Western with headquarters at Sunyani. Each of these is subdivided into districts under a District Commissioner who exercises limited jurisdiction; as does also a Police Magistrate in the town of Kumasi.

In 1919 a Circuit Judge was appointed for Ashanti. This officer relieves the Chief Commissioner of practically all judicial work except civil cases and matters in which native customary law is applicable.

The peaceful relations which, under the auspices of the Gold Coast Government, have existed for many years now between the Ashantis and the neighbouring tribes have been signified by not infrequent petitions emanating from the Gold Coast Colony as well as from Ashanti for the return from exile of Prempeh, the former Chief
of Kumasi. The confidence felt by the Government of the Gold Coast in the loyalty of the Ashanti people led to the granting of this request in 1924, and to approval being given in 1926 of his election by his people as Omanhene or Head Chief of the Kumasi tribe.

THE NORTHERN TERRITORIES.

In 1897 the territories to the north of Ashanti were constituted a separate district with the title of "The Northern Territories," and placed in charge of a Commissioner, and a grant-in-aid of the expenditure in the Northern Territories was voted by Parliament.

Major H. P. Northcott was appointed Commissioner and Commandant of these territories, with the rank of Lieutenant-Colonel. The negotiations between the British and French Governments for the settlement of territorial questions in West Africa, which had been suspended in 1896, were resumed in October, 1897; and on 14th June, 1898, after a period of considerable tension in consequence of the proximity of the British and French forces in the disputed territories, a Convention was signed at Paris with a proviso that it should be ratified within six (subsequently extended to twelve) months. By this Convention the boundary between the Gold Coast and the French Colony of the Ivory Coast, which had only been settled in 1889, as far as the 9th parallel of north latitude, was continued northwards along the course of the Black Volta River to the 11th parallel, and it was then drawn along the 11th parallel with a deflection to the north in the neighbourhood of Mamprusi, until it met the Franco-German boundary of 1897.

The effect of the Anglo-French Convention of 14th June, 1898, was to leave Bona, Lobi, and Moshi to France, while Dagati, Wa, Mamprusi, and the southern portion of Grunshi were included in the British sphere.

On 14th November, 1899, an agreement was concluded with Germany for the partition of the "neutral zone." This partition assigned Salaga to Great Britain, and Yendi to Germany, and to the north of the zone gave Mamprusi to the former and Chakosi to the latter.

Survey operations were undertaken by Anglo-French and Anglo-German Commissions during 1901-2, for the delimitation of those portions of the boundaries which had not yet been settled.

By the demarcation on the ground of the Anglo-German boundary between the Trans-Volta District and the adjoining Colony of Togo; of the Anglo-German boundary north of the 9th parallel of north latitude; and of the Anglo-French boundary along the 11th parallel of north latitude, all the frontiers of the Colony, Ashanti and the Northern Territories have now been exactly defined.

Provision was made for the administration of the Northern Territories under the Gold Coast Government by an Order of the King in Council of 26th September, 1901, and by an Administrative Ordinance of January 1st, 1902, the Northern Territories were placed under a Chief Commissioner, and divided into the White Volta, Black Volta, Kintampo and Gonja Districts with headquarters at Gambaga, Wa, Kintampo and Salaga.

By orders of 1927, the country was re-divided as follows:

Northern Province, consisting of the districts of Navrongo; Kumasi (Protectorate Section of), Southern Mamprusi (Protectorate Section of), Lawra-Tumu, Wa and Zuarungu.

Southern Province, consisting of Western Dagamba, Eastern Gonja (Protectorate Section of), and Western Gonja.

The Districts are presided over by Commissioners, who are responsible to the Chief Commissioner and have Courts of Justice, with appeal to the Chief Commissioner at Tamale.

By Order in Council, of the 22nd of October, 1906, the boundaries between the Northern Territories and Ashanti were re-adjusted and defined.

An important step was taken with regard to the Government of this Protectorate by replacing, with effect from the 1st of January, 1907, the former semi-military administration by a staff of Civil District and Assistant District Commissioners, and by establishing new stations. Simultaneously, the 2nd Battalion of the Gold Coast Regiment was disbanded and a force of armed constabulary substituted therefor. In 1929, the Northern Territories Constabulary was disbanded and their duties taken over by the Gold Coast Police.

In 1920 the Circuit Judge, Ashanti, was appointed to exercise in the Northern Territories powers similar to those which he exercises in Ashanti.

THE BRITISH SPHERE OF TOGO-LAND.

The former German protectorate of Togoland is situated on the Gulf of Guinea, bounded on the east by Dahomey and on the west by the Gold Coast and its Protectorates. The actual coast-line lies between 1° 45' and 1° 14' W. longitude, the frontiers, however, especially on the west, opening out considerably. The total area is about 36,500 square miles.

Until 1884-85 the majority of the tribes along the littoral and its immediate hinterland, also those adjoining the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast regarded themselves as being under the suzerainty of Great Britain, but by agreements made with the French on the 24th December, 1885, and with the British on the 14th and 28th July, 1886, when provisional frontiers were fixed, German influence was formally recognized by those Powers. Subsequent agreements dated the 23rd July, 1897, and the 14th November, 1899, between Germany and the Governments of France and Great Britain respectively defined the northern frontiers of Togoland.

Immediately upon the outbreak of war between Great Britain and Germany Togoland was invaded by the Gold Coast forces. On the 6th August, 1914, Captain E. B. Barker entered the capital, Lome, under a flag of truce and on the following day that town and the hinterland for a distance of 120 kilometers from the sea were surrendered. On the 8th August Anecho (Petit Popo) was occupied by the French. Operations on a larger scale commenced on the 11th August when Temporary Lieutenant-Colonel F. C. Bryant landed at Lome. After engagements at Agbelufuo and Chra River on the 16th and 24th August respectively the enemy retired on the great wireless station at Kamina, which they destroyed. On the 26th August the Acting-Governor surrendered the Colony unconditionally.
Pour parlers then took place between Sir Hugh Clifford, governor of the Gold Coast, and M. Noufflard, governor of Dahomey, as the result of which an agreement, subsequently ratified by the governments concerned was drawn up. Under this agreement Togoland was provisionally divided into British and French spheres. To the British were allotted the western administrative areas of Lome and Loreland, Misahoe, Kete-Krachi and Yendi, and to the French Anecho, Atakpame, Sokode and Sansanne Mangu.

By proclamation dated the 30th September, 1914, civil courts were established under the presidency of political officers seconded from the Gold Coast, appeal lying from the district courts to that of a senior political officer. In the absence of a local criminal code, that of the Gold Coast was introduced as a basis of procedure.

In June, 1915, the office of senior political officer was merged in that of the senior military commander, without prejudice, however, to the civil nature of the court concerned.

Boundary adjustments with the French took place in 1920 in accordance with an agreement signed by Lord Milner and M. Simon on 10th July, 1919. Lome and the whole of the coast were given over to the French, and the British received additional territory in the interior. The area of the British sphere is 13,040 square miles.

In October, 1921, the Council of the League of Nations approved in principle the arrangements made between the British and French Governments for the division of Togoland in accordance with the agreement of 10th July, 1919, and the application to the territories of the Mandate system; and on 20th July, 1922, after a delay due to negotiations between the United States Government and the Mandatory Powers, the Council confirmed the mandates and defined their terms.*

The British Sphere of Togoland is now administered under the provisions of the British Sphere of Togoland Order in Council, 1923, which was issued on the 11th of October, 1923.

Under this instrument, the British Sphere is divided into the Northern Section and the Southern Section. The Northern Section is administered as if it formed part of the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast, and the Southern Section is administered as if it formed part of the Eastern Province of the Gold Coast Colony. The Chief Commissioner's Court of the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast exercises jurisdiction in the Northern Section; and the Supreme Court of the Gold Coast Colony exercises the jurisdiction in the Southern Section.

Subject to the terms of the Mandate, the law for the time being in force in the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast is the law in force in the Northern Section, and the law for the time being in force in the Gold Coast Colony is the law in force in the Southern Section. The Governor of the Gold Coast Colony is empowered to enact Ordinances with respect to the British Sphere as a whole, or with respect to either Section thereof separately. The British Sphere of Togoland is not distinguished from the Gold Coast in the statistical returns, but it is beyond question that the revenue which it brings to the Gold Coast is inconsiderable compared with the money expended upon it. It contains no part of the old German railway system, which retains most of the export and import trade of the Southern and richest Section. The towns of Ho and Kpandu are joined to the Gold Coast road system by a road which meets the Volta River at Senchi where there is a power ferry. There is also a direct road from Yendi to Tamale, but the Gold Coast cannot offer prices sufficiently attractive to induce the people to abandon their accustomed market centres on the Lome Railway.

**Gold Coast Statistics.**

| Year | Revenue | Expenditure | British | Total |
|------|---------|-------------|---------|-------|
|      | £       | £           | £       | £     |
| 1920 | 3,721,772 | 2,866,347   | 1,767,492 | 2,358,254 |
| 1921 | 792,498  | 1,021,647   | —       | —     |
| 1922-23 | 3,016,520 | 3,285,290 | 1,675,108 | 2,509,161 |
| 1922-23 | 3,873,196 | 2,934,994 | 1,797,877 | 2,775,836 |
| 1923-24 | 3,742,834 | 3,165,124 | 1,977,364 | 3,297,869 |
| 1924-25 | 3,971,187 | 3,828,333 | 2,189,097 | 3,671,964 |
| 1925-26 | 4,116,442 | 4,255,126 | 2,490,651 | 4,181,150 |
| 1926-27 | 4,365,321 | 4,328,159 | 2,698,872 | 4,812,222 |
| 1927-28 | 5,217,638 | 4,714,947 | 2,836,491 | 4,896,400 |
| 1928-29 | 4,703,967 | 5,419,732 | 2,891,159 | 5,462,930 |
| 1929-30 | 3,397,324 | 3,932,022 | 2,977,635 | 5,640,387 |

*Imports.*

| Year | From U.K. | From Colonies | Elsewhere | Total |
|------|-----------|---------------|-----------|-------|
|      | £         | £             | £         | £     |
| 1920 | 11,826,204 | 224,216       | 3,101,725 | 15,152,145 |
| 1921 | 5,827,740  | 157,152       | 1,676,432 | 7,661,324 |
| 1922 | 5,986,325  | 417,790       | 1,615,224 | 7,919,339 |
| 1923 | 5,847,798  | 251,722       | 2,349,345 | 8,448,882 |
| 1924 | 5,406,983  | 283,691       | 2,624,560 | 8,316,234 |
| 1925 | 6,363,566  | 240,866       | 3,173,197 | 9,782,619 |
| 1926 | 5,717,461  | 1,141,922     | 3,426,493 | 10,285,876 |
| 1927 | 7,940,917  | 775,872       | 5,063,753 | 13,770,542 |
| 1928 | 6,513,246  | 506,995       | 5,179,804 | 12,200,045 |
| 1929 | 4,757,712  | 398,770       | 4,925,899 | 10,062,381 |

*Exports.*

| Year | To U.K. | To Colonies | Elsewhere | Total |
|------|---------|-------------|-----------|-------|
|      | £       | £           | £         | £     |
| 1920 | 5,864,725 | 530,430     | 5,957,052 | 12,352,207 |
| 1921 | 3,215,645 | 488,674     | 3,237,878 | 6,942,197 |
| 1922 | 3,622,556 | 343,993     | 4,477,087 | 8,443,635 |
| 1923 | 3,058,616 | 347,899     | 5,552,898 | 8,959,313 |
| 1924 | 2,884,926 | 429,509     | 6,600,502 | 9,914,937 |
| 1925 | 3,372,680 | 426,161     | 7,091,442 | 10,890,223 |
| 1926 | 3,670,865 | 437,809     | 8,096,126 | 12,104,800 |
| 1927 | 4,334,135 | 420,590     | 9,595,630 | 14,350,355 |
| 1928 | 4,104,509 | 399,734     | 9,320,532 | 13,824,875 |
| 1929 | 3,615,835 | 416,506     | 8,645,375 | 12,677,716 |

Customs receipts, 1927—3,070,954l.; 1928—3,010,749l.; 1929—2,389,209l.

Governors of the Gold Coast (since 1900).

1900. Sir Matthew Nathan, K.C.M.G.
1904. Sir John P. Rodger, K.C.M.G.
1910. J. J. Thorburn, Esq., C.M.G.
1912. Sir Hugh C. Clifford, K.C.M.G.
1919. Brigadier-General Sir F. Gordon Guggisberg, K.C.M.G., D.S.O., R.E.
1927. Sir Alexander Ransford Slater, K.C.M.G., C.B.E.

Executive Council.

The Governor, President.
The Colonial Secretary.
The Attorney-General.
The Treasurer.

* These figures refer to calendar years.
The Director of Medical and Sanitary Services.
The Secretary for Native Affairs.
The Legislative Council is composed of the same members as the Executive Council, with the addition of the following Members:

Ex Officio Members:
- The Comptroller of Customs.
- The Director of Public Works.
- The General Manager of Railways.
- The Commissioner of the Western Province.
- The Commissioner of the Central Province.
- The Commissioner of the Eastern Province.
- The Surveyor General.
- The Director of Education.

Nominated Official Members:
- The Conservator of Forests.
- The Director of Agriculture.

Unofficial Members:
6 Provincial Members:
Elected, Nana Ayirebi Acquah III. (Omanhene of Winnebe); Togbi Sri II (Awame Fia of Awuma); Nana Sir Ofori Atta, K.B.E. (Omanhene of Akim Abraakwa); Nana Aduku III. (Omanhene of Mamkessim); Nana Osman Adjaye (Omanhene of Western Nzima); Nene M. A. Awah II (Manche of Shai).

Elected Mercantile Member, R. Harris.
Nominated Mining Member, J. D. McKay, O.B.E.
Nominated Unofficial Members, F. E. Talland, O.B.E., T. Whitfield, R. W. Youngman.
Elected Municipal Members, J. Glover-Addo, K. A. Komah.
Clerk of Councils, D. B. Strathairn.

† CIVIL ESTABLISHMENT.

Governor's Office.
Governor, Sir A. Ramsford Slater, K.C.M.G., C.B.E., 4,500l., plus 1,500l. duty allowance.
Private Secretary, V. Basevi, 450l.
Aide-de-Camp, Lieut. H. A. Hughes, 450l.

† In the following particulars of the Civil Establishment:

Scale A is as follows:—For those appointed before 1st October, 1923; 450l. for three years, then 510l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

For those appointed on or after 1st October, 1923; 450l., 415l., 430l., 450l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

Scale B is as follows:—For those appointed before 1st October, 1923; 400l. for three years, then 570l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 960l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

For those appointed on or after 1st October, 1923; 450l. for three years, then 510l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 960l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

Scale C is as follows:—For those appointed before 1st October, 1923; 490l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

For those appointed on or after 1st October, 1923; 450l. for three years, then 510l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

Scale D is as follows:—For those appointed before 1st October, 1923; 400l. by 12l. to 480l.

For those appointed on or after 1st October, 1923; 380l. by 12l. to 480l.—the last increment being 18l.

Scale E is as follows:—For those appointed before 1st October, 1923; 440l. by 12l. to 600l.

For those appointed on or after 1st October, 1923; 400l. by 12l. to 500l.—the last increment being 18l.

Colonial Secretary's Office.
Colonial Secretary, G. A. S. Northcote, 1,800l., and duty allowance, 360l.
Deputy Colonial Secretary, G. C. du Boulay, C.B.E., 1,360l., and duty allowance 270l.
Principal Assistant Colonial Secretary, J. P. Ross, 1,200l., and duty allowance 240l.
Senior Assistant Colonial Secretaries, D. B. Strathairn, L. W. Wood, 1,050l., and duty allowance, 210l.
Assistant Colonial Secretaries, J. L. Trafford, Major W. H. Gilliland, R. B. Crabb, W. T. Harrigan, Capt. G. C. B. Parish, C. O. Butler, Capt. J. V. W. Shaw, Capt. G. M. Puckridge, Capt. H. G. Ardron, Scale B, and Secretariat allowance, 120l.
Secretarial Assistant, J. Welting, 335l.-15l.-350l.-25l.-800l.
Superintendent, Correspondence Branch, A. W. Clerk, 300l.-12l.-384l.-16l.-400l.-20l.-500l.
Superintendent, Registration Branch, H. H. Malm, 300l.-12l.-384l.-16l.-400l.-20l.-500l.
Superintendent, Miscellaneous Branch, S. A. Laryea, 300l.-12l.-396l.
Superintendent, Personnel Branch, E. W. Adjaye, 300l.-12l.-396l.

Secretary for Native Affairs Office.
Secretary for Native Affairs, W. J. A. Jones, 1,350l., and 270l. duty allowance.
Deputy Secretary for Native Affairs, H. W. Thomas, 1,200l., and 240l. duty allowance.
Assistant Secretary for Native Affairs, J. C. de Graaf Johnson, 375l., 425l. by 25l. to 600l. by 36l. to 780l.

Administrative and Political Service.
Chief Commissioner, Ashanti, H. S. Newlands, 1,800l., and duty allowance, 320l.
Chief Commissioner, Northern Territories, F. W. F. Jackson, C.M.G., D.S.O., 1,600l., and duty allowance, 320l.
Deputy Chief Commissioner, E. A. T. Taylor, 1,350l., and duty allowance 270l.
Provincial Commissioners, A. C. D. Johnstone, Lt.-Col. P. F. Whittall, D.S.O., C. E. Skane, Capt. A. W. Norris (supernumerary), Capt. E. T. Mansfield, E. O. Rake, 1,200l., plus 240l. duty allowance.
Deputy Provincial Commissioners, F. W. Applegate, A. F. E. Fieldgate, Paymaster-Comdr. S. W. Saxton, R.N. (retired), 1,060l., plus 210l. duty allowance.
District Commissioners and Assistant District Commissioners, G. R. Manners, Capt. A. S. Watt, G. B. Freeman, W. W. Kilby, A. W. Cardinal, G. H. Sumner Wilson, W. E. Gilbert, M.C., C. E. E. Cockey, A. F. L. Wilkinson, L. W. Judd, T. R. O. Mangin, Capt. J. C. Warrington, Capt. V. J. Lynch, M.C., Major S. B. Jones, A. J. Walker, Capt. R. J. Ramsey, Major G. J. G. G. Cumine, D.S.O., Capt. R. C. Sumner, Capt. C. C. Lilley, O.B.E., Lt.-Col. G. H. Gibbs, M.C., Major W. R. Gosling, O.B.E., Paymaster-Lieut. G. P. H. Bewes, E. A. Burner, Capt. J. R. Dickinson, M.C., C. S. Masser, Major J. S. R. Robertson, Capt. St. J. R. Eyre Smith, M.C., G. O. Parker, G. Hall, B. D. A. Cathie, H. P. Dixon, Capt. P. W. Rutherford, M.C., R. W. Sanderson, Major P. C. R. Moreton, D.S.O., J. E. Miller, R. E. Page, P. Holtzbaum, R. A. B. Hall, Capt. E. F. Burn, O.B.E., Capt. O. F. Ross, G. D. Chamberlain, G. E. C. Wisdom, D. R. Caruth, E. N. Jones, O. J. Collison, M.C., Capt. J. A. Armstrong, J. P. W. Everhed, Capt. V. W. Bratton, W. H. Beeton, H. C. Ellershaw, G. F. Mackay, P. C. B. Shirreffs, H. V. Wimhurst, D. A. Sutherland, R. W. Woolley, J. A. Prendergast, H. A. Blair; J. K. G. Syme,
M. I. H. Mackenzie-Inglis, W. B. Smith, J. Gutch, C. B. A. Darling, Capt. L. I. Mothersill, M. M. Miln, D. N. Walker, R. G. Cooper, Hon. H. W. Amherst, H. S. Stovold, S. Reynolds, S. J. Olivier, G. E. Barnard, H. E. Devaux, R. G. Syme, W. A. S. Cole, A. C. Spooner, A. C. Russell, R. E. Walker, G. N. N. Nunn, W. V. Fuller, C. J. Bonavia. Scale B.

Cadets, A. J. Loveridge, E. W. Ellison, W. A. R. Walker, A. McAuley, A. D. Dawson.

Chief Clerks, M. O. Deane, E. J. Steele, J. H. Mensah, J. K. Awotwi, R. A. Badoo, 300l. by 12l. to 396l.

Judicial Department.

Chief Justice, Sir G. C. Deane, Kt., 2,000l. and 400l. duty allowance.

Puisne Judges, R. E. Hall, W. P. Michelin, A. B. Howes, S. S. Sawrey-Cookson, E. Gardiner-Smith, J. M. St. J. Yates, 1,400l., and 280l. duty allowance each.

Chief Registrar and Sheriff, J. F. St. A. Fawcett, 960l. plus 96l. duty allowance.

Police Magistrates, C. E. W. Bannerman, C. A. Good, R. J. Manning, A. P. Taylor, Capt. W. Price-Jones, M.C., R. T. Egg, I. L. Brace, A. Hutton-Mills. (Four at 720l. by 40l. to 960l., two at 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 840l., plus 72l. seniority allowance from 720l.)

Divisional Court Registrars, Frank Vardon, J. B. Atkins, Samuel Bannerman, 300l. by 12l. to 396l.

Judiciary Ashanti and Northern Territories.

Circuit Judge, C. M. Barton, 1,200l., and 240l. duty allowance.

Police Magistrates (two vacancies), 720l. by 40l. to 960l., plus 72l. seniority allowance.

Law Officers' Department.

Attorney-General, S. S. Abrahams, 1,500l. and 300l. duty allowance.

Solicitor-General, J. de Hart, 1,100l. and 220l. duty allowance.

Crown Counsel, L. E. V. McCarthy, C. Furness Smith, H. Glyn Morgan, 720l. to 960l., and 72l. seniority allowance.

Chief Clerk, M. A. N. Therson, 300l. to 396l.

Printing Office.

Government Printer, T. D. Hewer, 630l. to 800l., and 72l. seniority allowance.

Superintendent Government Press, W. H. Crocker, 540l. by 15l. to 600l.

Assistant Government Printers, C. E. Heath, Capt. A. Johnson and G. M. Hardie, 420l. to 600l. by 15l., Printers' Engineer, G. L. Hutton, 420l. by 15l. to 600l.

European Proof Reader, E. Stoddard, M.M., 420l. by 15l. to 600l.

African Assistant Government Printer (vacant), 336l. to 480l. by 15l.

African Superintendents, D. E. Martins, J. A. Campbell, P. Cole, 300l. by 12l. to 396l.

Treasury Department.

Treasurer, R. A. Kelly, 1,350l., and 270l. duty allowance.

Deputy Treasurer, H. Vane Peruy, 1,060l., and 210l. duty allowance.

Assistant Treasurers, G. A. D. Davies, Capt. J. H. Stephens, M.C., F. A. C. Jones, J. H. Anderson, A. R. W. Robertson, F. D. MacPhail, Scale A.

African Assistant Treasurers, F. L. J. Cato and Sam Bakloo, 375l., 425l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 780l.

Sub-Assistant Treasurers, Stephen Coleman, J. A. Seckey, M. E. Wristberg, W. F. Hutchison, and E. W. Addy, 300l. by 12l. to 396l.

Chief Clerk, A. I. Anteson, 300l. by 12l. to 396l.

For Scales A to F, see footnote on page 806.

Audit Department.

Auditor, W. Bowerley, C.B.E., 1,100l., duty allowance 290l., and personal allowance 200l.

Deputy Auditor, C. E. de B. Biden, 960l. and duty allowance, 96l.

Assistant Auditors, R. F. Pinder, Capt. W. H. Lempiere, A. C. Hands, L. R. Barton, R. E. Irwin, G. E. L. Lord (1 vacancy), Scale A.

Chief Audit Clerk, G. Marmon, 335l. by 15l. to 360l., by 25l. to 600l., by 36l. to 780l.

Customs Department.

Comptroller, J. I. Lauder, 1,200l., and 240l. duty allowance.

Deputy Comptroller, Capt. A. D. MacKenzie, 1,060l., and 210l. duty allowance.

Provincial Collectors, H. E. Davis, Capt. G. Paterson, M.M., 960l., and 96l. duty allowance.

Senior Collectors and Collectors, A. J. Beckley, O.B.E., N. D. Macbeth, Capt. H. W. R. Chandler, M.C., W. E. Conway, Capt. J. R. Braddick, J. L. O'Connor, M.C., G. J. Freeman, J. McLagan, J. Milne, Capt. C. L. d'Albani, G. H. Barnalough, A. G. Simon, C. G. Packwood, Capt. C. W. Dunn, M.C., H. G. Gowen, A. G. Davidson, F. C. Lander, A. G. Johnson, R. P. M. T. Barrett, M. S. Murphy, Scale A; A. S. Dadzic, 336l. by 15l. to 360l., by 25l. to 600l., by 36l. to 780l.

Supervisors, M. Ashun, W. Tackey, Wm. Quansah, T. L. Odamten, W. A. Sowah, and J. Penney, Jnr., 300l. by 12l. to 396l.

Railway and Harbour Department.

General Manager and Harbour Authority, R. H. Dawson, M.Inst.T., 1,700l., and 340l. duty allowance.

Deputy General Manager, R. Higham, 1,350l., and 270l. duty allowance.

Secretary to General Manager, F. J. Buah, Scale A.

Assistant Secretary to General Manager (vacant). Scale A, with maximum of 720l.

Chief Clerk, J. Haizel, 300l. by 12l. to 396l.

Chief Engineer, J. H. Dodd, A.M.I.C.E., 1,180l., and 238l. duty allowance.

District Engineers, A. C. Roberts, F. V. Macdonald, A.M.I.C.E., J. R. S. Sutherland, Scale C.

Assistant Engineers, W. J. O. Reeves, W. R. Clark, A.M.I.C.E., J. W. Moran, O.B.E., A.M.I.C.E., A. C. E. Anthony, A.M.I.C.E., L. G. Lloyd, A.M.I.S.W.E., P. A. Oppenheim, A.M.I.C.E., G. D. Rae, H. W. G. Drummond, Scale C (1 vacancy).

Draughtsmen, W. H. Norris, Scale A, with maximum of 720l.

Foreman of Works, A. Ward, W. J. Blight, J. Merry, J. Milne, 500l. by 12l. to 560l. (2 vacancies).

Chief Mechanical Engineer, R. T. Kerr, A.M.I.Mech.E., M.I.Loco.E., 1,180l., and 236l. duty allowance.

Assistant Chief Mechanical Engineer, G. S. Simmons, 960l., and 96l. duty allowance.

District Locomotive Superintendents, F. P. O'Sullivan, Major C. R. Turner, Scale C.

Works Manager (vacant), 720l. to 920l. and 72l. seniority allowance.

Assistant Locomotive Superintendents, J. E. Cutforth, W. Venner, J. H. Burt, A. T. G. Power, W. C. Clark, Scale C.

Chief Draughtsman and Technical Instructor, R. G. Wickham, Scale C.

Loco. Office Superintendent, S. A. Muddie, Scale A, with maximum of 720l.

Chief Clerk, C. E. Amoah, 300l. by 12l. to 396l.

Senior Locomotive Foreman, D. W. Noble, 600l.

Locomotive Foremen, T. Taberner, J. Neary, G. R. Bruce, S. Riley, C. S. Morris, W. H. Wilson, W. Beaumont, 500l. by 12l. to 560l.

Boiler Inspector, G. A. Nork, 600l.

For Scales A to F, see footnote on page 806.
Progress Officer, D. H. Moore, 600l.
Mechanical Foreman of Wharfs, W. K. Fairclough, 600l.
Carriage and Wagon Foreman, S. S. Aldridge, 500l. by 12l. to 560l. and 40l. personal allowance.
Foreman Boiler Maker, G. Snow, 500l. by 12l. to 560l.
Foreman Millwright, H. Horsfield, 500l. by 12l. to 560l.
Foreman Blacksmith, J. Kitchin, 500l. by 12l. to 560l.
Machine Shop Foreman, H. D. Hearsum, 500l. by 12l. to 560l.
Erecting Shop Foreman, H. J. Kill, 500l. by 12l. to 560l. and 40l. personal allowance.
Foundry Foreman, W. J. Richards, 500l. by 12l. to 560l.
Inspecting Drivers, A. W. Sherwood (1 vacancy), 500l. by 12l. to 560l.
Chief Electrical Engineer, W. D. Frost, 1,020l., and 100l. duty allowance.
Assistant Electrical Engineers, A. R. Townsend, M. H. Rooney, D. H. Skinner (1 vacancy), Scale C, with maximum of 720l.
Shift Engineers, R. Black (2 vacancies), 500l. by 12l. to 560l.
Traffic Manager, W. E. Lewis, 1,180l., and 236l. duty allowance.
District Traffic Superintendents, L. G. Tancock, W. Woods, W. L. Williams, Scale A.
Assistant Traffic Superintendents, A. Bennett, H. Munro, R. Creighton, W. Dickinson, W. Hill, A. C. Sykes, N. Blackall, R. J. Field, Scale A.
Chief Clerk, J. Mensah-Kane, 300l. by 12l. to 396l.
Senior District Station Masters, H. W. A. Mason, G. W. Staig, 500l. by 12l. to 560l.
District Station Masters, C. V. F. Brown, R. J. Hudman, J. A. Smith, T. S. Breckon, E. Roberts, R. S. Cunningham, A. Bradshaw, R. G. Walton, S. A. Aston, Scale F.
Senior Station Masters, C. D. Amoah, S. B. Amizah, 300l. by 12l. to 396l.
Chief Accountant, H. Mason, 1,180l., and 236l. duty allowance.
Senior Accountants, A. G. Moreton, F. H. Brown, 720l. to 920l., 72l. seniority allowance.
Accountants, C. B. Hughes, H. Henderson, C. O. Parker, 600l. to 720l. and 800l., 72l. seniority allowance from 720l.
Assistant Accountants, S. W. Arrowmith, W. A. Hutchinson, E. Oldham, J. S. Birt, D. V. Summers, H. G. McKelroy, R. A. Braysher, Scale A, with maximum of 720l.; W. Mensah, J. D. Haizel, 335l. to 780l.
Stock Verifier, S. F. Harmer-Elliott, Scale A, with maximum of 720l.
Printing Superintendent, T. Turner, 420l. by 15l. to 600l.
African Assistant Accountants, A. C. D. Edmundson, T. J. Walker, 300l. by 12l. to 396.
Chief Storekeeper, F. C. Deacon, 800l. to 1,020l., and 100l. duty allowance.
Assistant Chief Storekeeper, J. H. Pryer, 720l. to 800l., 72l. seniority allowance.
Assistant Storekeepers, T. H. Taylor, D. C. Bailey, W. Galloway (1 vacancy), Scale A, with maximum of 720l.
Store Accountant, B. W. Taylor, Scale A, with maximum of 720l.
African Assistant Storekeeper, E. C. Turkson, 300l. by 12l. to 396l.

Takoradi Harbour.
General Manager and Harbour Authority, R. H. Dawson, M.Inst.T.
Deputy General Manager, R. Higham.

Assistant Secretary to General Manager, A. F. Kirby, A.M.Inst.T., Scale A, with maximum of 720l.
Chief Accountant, H. Mason, A.M.Inst.T.
Assistant Accountant (vacant), Scale A, with maximum of 720l.
African Assistant Accountant, A. G. Quist, 300l. by 12l. to 396l.
Chief Storekeeper, F. C. Deacon.
Chief Engineer, J. H. Dodd.
Harbour Engineer, W. Hewitt, 1,000l., duty allowance 200l.
Foreman of Works, A. J. Davis, E. Thompson, 500l. by 12l. to 560l.
Chief Mechanical Engineer, R. T. Kerr, A.M.I.Mech.E., M.I.Loco.E.
Tug Engineers, R. J. T. Bond, W. E. G. Wallace, W. Gordon, 480l. by 20l. to 560l., charge allowance 48l.
Harbour Master, Capt. C. R. Hemans, R.N. (retired), 1,000l., 200l. duty allowance.
Assistant Harbour Master, J. A. Davis, 750l., 72l. seniority allowance.
Senior Pilot, A. E. Adams, 650l.
Pilote, H. G. Veale, G. E. Cartner, 600l.
Tug Masters, W. E. Hewkin, W. F. Truscott, J. V. Knott, 400l. by 15l. to 560l., 48l. command pay.
Store Accountant, B. W. Taylor, Scale A, with maximum of 720l.
African Assistant Storekeeper, E. C. Turkson, 300l. by 12l. to 396l.
Engineer-in-Charge, Survey, Major L. E. Silcox, D.S.O., 1,100l., 180l. duty allowance, 120l. field allowance.
District Engineer, Survey, E. G. Richards, 720l. to 920l., 72l. seniority allowance, 90l. field allowance.
Assistant Engineers, Survey, J. B. Wise, F. R. Ridgewell, C. H. Silcox, G. E. H. Allen, 600l. to 720l. to 920l., 90l. field allowance, 72l. seniority allowance from 720l.

Railway Extension Survey Staff.
Engineer-in-Charge, Major L. E. Silcox, D.S.O., 1,100l., 160l. duty allowance, 120l. Field Allowance.
District Engineer, E. G. Richards, 720l. to 920l., 72l. seniority allowance, 90l. field allowance.
Assistant Engineers, J. B. Wise, F. R. Ridgewell, C. H. Silcox, G. E. H. Allen, 600l. to 720l. to 920l., 90l. field allowance, 72l. seniority allowance from 720l.

Takoradi Harbour Construction Staff.
Chief Resident Engineer, W. Hewitt (acting), 1,250l. with duty allowance 250l.
Engineer, D. G. Anderson, 1,000l., plus 200l. duty allowance.
Senior Inspector of Works (Diving), E. C. Wade, 580l. plus 120l. charge and 48l. diving allowance.
Inspector of Works, W. Troughton (diver), 580l. and 48l. diving allowance.

Posts and Telegraphs Department.
Postmaster-General, Major S. B. Goaling, 1,200l. and 240l. duty allowance.
Deputy Postmaster-General, E. C. Crewe, 1,000l., and 200l. duty allowance.
Chief Accountant, J. W. Webber, 920l., duty allowance 80l.
Assistant Accountants, E. A. Martin, W. Emmett, and L. C. Saville, Scale A, with maximum of 720l.
Divisional Surveyors, V. Sutcliff, H. Brooks, A. E. Stride, and District Surveyors, J. Youll, J. Petrie, J. Rothwell, R. H. Hume, P. Wallis, and E. A. Pocock, Scale A.

For Scales A to F, see footnote on page 306.
Head Storekeeper, Capt. R. A. M. Hastings, M.C., Scale A, with maximum of 720L.

Assistant Storekeepers, A. B. Cawthra and H. D. Coe, Scale A, with maximum of 720L.

Telephone Exchange Superintendents, Miss M. T. Wood, Miss W. Murdochson, Miss N. P. H. James, Miss H. Ross, 400L by 15L to 430L, by 30L to 600L.

Telegraph Instructor, J. S. Page, Scale C.

Wireless Operators, L. C. C. Miles, A. W. Spurling, Scale C, with maximum of 720L.

African Assistant District Surveyors, J. E. Holdbrook (one vacancy), 335L, 350L by 24L to 600L, by 36L to 780L.

Senior Divisional African Officers, F. P. Flange, G. M. Gunn, W. H. Smith-Mensah, W. F. Creppy, Albion Menda, D. C. A. Lamprey, A. C. Quist, J. P. Baddoo (two vacancies), 300L by 12L to 396L.

Engineering Branch.

Engineer-in-Chief, R. S. Baker, 1,000L, and 200L duty allowance.

Assistant Engineer-in-Chief (vacant), 960L and 96L duty allowance.

Divisional Engineers, C. V. Close, J. L. Shearer, W. B. South, Scale C.

Telegraph Engineers and Assistant Telegraph Engineers, L. G. M. Keevil, S. S. Kallaway, D. G. M. Lawson, J. Macklin, D. H. Mackay, F. J. Greer, J. R. F. Robertson, E. T. K. Cann, F. Paltridge, and C. P. Willa, Scale C.

Technical Instructor, A. Duclerker, Scale C.

Assistant Technical Instructors, A. J. Paul and G. B. Jones, Scale C.

Workshop Superintendent, W. Samples, Scale C.

Assistant Workshop Superintendent, L. C. Ramsey (1 vacancy), Scale C.

Senior Inspectors, E. J. Beare (one vacancy), 500L by 12L to 560L.

Inspectors, S. H. C. Scott, E. L. Claringbold, H. E. Mallows, S. Hughes, R. J. Rigney, H. Thompson, H. H. Alder (two vacancies), Scale F.

Senior Mechanic, W. Foscroft, 600L.

Mechanics, O. D. Smart, Scale F.

Telegraph Foreman, C. H. Tomkins, G. P. Smith, G. H. Mason, F. C. Dickinson, J. B. R. Easton, R. A. Thomas, N. Robson, S. J. Jenkins (five vacancies), Scale F.

Medical Department.

Director of Medical and Sanitary Services, W. J. D. Inness, C.M.G., 1,600L, and 320L duty allowance.

Deputy Director of Medical and Sanitary Services, G. Hungerford, 1,400L, and 280L duty allowance.

Assistant Directors of Medical Services, D. Duff, P. D. Oakley, 1,300L, and 260L duty allowance.

Specialists, H. W. Gush, 1,400L, and 280L duty allowance; E. M. Franklin, A. M. MacRae, 1,300L, and 260L duty allowance.

Senior Medical Officers, K. B. Allan, R. Mugliston, E. F. Ward, S. L. Brohier, W. I. Martyn-Clark, W. J. McClelland, 1,000L to 1,150L, with seniority allowance of 100L.

Medical Officers, J. Byrne, J. R. Forde, F. H. Cooke, E. S. E. Mack, V. E. Critien, M. de Bono, F. McKerman, E. M. Fraser, O. G. Wilde, J. Hamilton, J. H. Pennan, F. M. Purcell, G. W. Vaughan, J. H. Owen-Flood, W. N. Greer, O.B.E., M. T. Cassidy, P. L. Gray, M. MacSweeney, A. J. Hawe, F. S. Paterson, L. D. Quigley, V. J. G. MacGregor, H. S. Townsend, G. M. Minifie, A. M. Gillespie, E. L. Sanders, A. MacPherson, A. Walker, W. Magowan, A. Reid, S. Batchelor, M.C., W. S. Thomas, G. C. Edwards, D. W. Seth-Smith, S. A. Maclean, P. B. Wilkinson, R. Ramsay (five vacancies), 660L to 960L, 1,000L by 50L to 1,150L, with seniority allowance of 72L from 720L.

Alienist Officer, F. McLagan, 800L by 40L to 960L, 1,000L by 50L to 1,150L, with seniority allowance of 72L, and staff pay of 150L.

Woman Medical Officers, G. M. L. Summerhayes, J. G. E. F. Cummins, D. E. Stewart, 660L to 960L, 1,000L by 50L to 1,150L, with seniority allowance of 72L from 720L.

Dental Surgeons, W. H. Donald and J. Campbell, 660L to 720L to 960L, with seniority allowance of 72L.

African Medical Officers, A. F. Renner Dove, E. Tagoe, F. Ribeiro, H. Mercer-Ricketts (two vacancies), 500L to 720L.

Junior African Medical Officer (vacant), 400L.

Secretary to Director of Medical and Sanitary Services, A. E. Oldfield, 400L to 720L.

Radiographer, G. MacLardie, 400L by 30L to 720L.

Assistant Radiographer, A. Buckner, 400L to 600L.

Analytical Chemists, R. Simmons and R. W. Clarke, 720L to 920L, with seniority allowance of 72L.

Dispensers' Instructor, W. Dunlin, 500L to 560L.

Medical Storekeeper, W. J. Phillips, 450L to 720L.

Secretary, Gold Coast Hospital, L. C. Whitcombe, 400L to 415L, 430L, 450L-720L.

Medical Secretary, Gold Coast Branch, British Empire Leprosy Relief Association, M. B. D. Dixey, 660L to 960L, 1,000L by 50L to 1,150L, with seniority allowance of 72L, and staff pay of 150L.

Matron European Nursing Staff, H. F. Furley, 600L, and 120L duty allowance.

Senior Nursing Sisters, G. M. Murphy, M. Rigney, M. G. le Bas (one vacancy), 500L to 800L, with seniority allowance of 40L.

Nursing Sisters, D. J. Taylor, C. E. Robinson, M. L. Brown, M. K. Parr, G. M. Spencer, M. M. E. Brodrick, E. D. Higham, E. M. Stringer, G. R. Mutton, R. Lawford, G. M. Evans, E. M. Howard, N. M. Hilliard, M. E. Phillips, D. E. Bird, N. E. Pearse, S. E. Audrie, E. M. Catton, M. M. McCarthy, A. G. Barchi, M. E. Williams, P. Stewart, V. M. V. Luscombe, B. G. B. Archer, E. M. A. G. Bennett, P. T. Evans, V. E. Kirby, 350L to 480L.

Chief Dispensers, D. B. Odonkor and S. K. Ollenu (one vacancy), 300L to 396L.

Chief Clerk, T. E. Hyde, 300L to 396L.

Sanitation Branch.

Deputy Director of Sanitary Services, H. O'Hara-May, 1,400L and 280L duty allowance.

Assistant Director of Sanitary Services, J. M. Mackay, M.C., 1,300L and 260L duty allowance.

Senior Sanitary Officers, W. M. Howells and H. C. E. Quinn, 1,050L to 1,200L, with duty allowance of 210L.

Medical Officers of Health, E. J. Daly, T. V. Fitzpatrick, D. Lennox, W. Chisholm, J. F. Southward, W. D. Whamond, V. E. Whitman, H. V. R. Miller, J. Pottinger, J. H. Dobbin, S. P. Wilson, R. Stuart, A. D. Cust, G. R. Baxter, and one vacancy, 900L to 960L, with seniority allowance of 72L, and staff pay of 150L.

Women Medical Officers, M. C. Chappel, E. M. Stratton, I. M. M. Aitken, B. A. S. Russell, C. D. Williams, M. K. Lewlor, F. A. Adam, 660L to 720L to 960L; 1,000L-60L-1,150L; with seniority allowance of 72L.

Senior Superintending Sanitary Inspector, H. T. Lucas, 450L to 720L.

Superintending Sanitary Inspectors, E. G. Gray, P. P. Horn, V. R. Coc, W. Gilling, W. R. Lawless, G. Gilmore, R. G. Connolly, G. A. Scales, J. Harper, F. J. Buckle, N. S. Elliott, J. T. Wilkie, L. G. Eddey, R. H. Thomas, E. J. Snell, W. J. Cooke, W. J. Getgood, H. A. Browning, C. R. Parfitt, C. W. Cotter, F. A. Peek, J. Taylor, P. J. Shannon, F. E. Levermore, 400L to 500L.

For Scales A to F, see footnote on page 506.
Office Assistant and Accountant, J. C. Barnor, 300l. to 396l.
Sanitary Inspector and Training Officer, C. M. G. Hoyte, 300l. to 396l.
Senior Division Sanitary Inspectors, A. Quao Thompson and A. E. Bentil, 300l. to 396l.

Medical Research Institute.
Director of Medical Research Institute, G. G. Butler, 1,300l., with 280l. duty allowance.
Pathologists, A. S. Burgess, 1,000l., to 1,150l., with seniority allowance of 100l. and staff pay of 150l.; W. Thompson, G. Robinson, Miss H. M. Russell, G. F. T. Saunders, R. D. Reid and M. Jackson, 800l. to 1,150l., with seniority allowance of 72l. and staff pay of 150l.
Medical Entomologist, A. W. J. Pomeroey, 1,000l., with 200l. duty allowance.
Assistant Entomologist, K. R. S. Morris, 800l. to 920l.
Laboratory Superintendent, F. Leeson, 480l. to 720l.
Laboratory Assistants, F. W. Abbott and S. F. Woodward, 440l. to 500l.

Public Cemeteries.
Registrar of Births and Deaths, H. O'Hara-May.

Animal Health Department.
Principal Veterinary Officer, Captain J. L. Stewart, M.C., B.Sc., M.R.C.V.S., 960l., and 96l. duty allowance.
Veterinary Officers, W. C. L. Orr, B.Sc., M.R.C.V.S., A. Fulton, M.R.C.V.S., J. McDonald, M.R.C.V.S., S. Simpson, M.R.C.V.S., H. H. Holman, M.R.C.V.S., 600l. by 30l. to 720l., by 40l. to 920l., and 72l. seniority allowance from 720l.
Inspector of Livestock, Lieut. A. E. Miller, M.C., 480l. by 30l. to 720l.

Education Department.
Director of Education, D. J. Oman, O.B.E., V.D., 1,200l., duty allowance 240l., and personal allowance of 100l.
Deputy Director of Education, 1,050l., duty allowance 210l.
Assistant Directors of Education, T. D. Cranston and G. Power, 1,050l., duty allowance 210l.
Shorthand Instructor and Office Assistant, E. J. Enstice, Scale C, with maximum of 720l.
Office Assistant, E. Lester, Scale C, with maximum of 720l.
Publications Editor, J. M. Winterbottom, Scale C.
Chief Clerk, P. G. Clerk, 300l. to 396l.
Inspectors of Schools, Capt. A. B. Douglas, Capt. H. D. Harrison, W. J. D. Wadley, M. G. Smith, G. H. Ardill, H. H. Spafford, A. G. N. Thompson, T. Barton, J. B. Flynn, W. R. Allen, A. Clark, K. J. Dickens, W. M. A. Jones, W. J. Dyer, F. F. W. S. Williams, M. F. Wentworth, R. S. Ducker, Scale C.
African Inspectors of Schools, J. S. Garbrah, V. A. Tettey and J. A. Addo, 400l. by 25l. to 600l. by 36l. to 780l.
Organizer of Practical Education, V. W. Wright, Scale C.
Organizers of Infant and Female Education, Miss E. W. Telfer, Miss D. B. Evans, Miss R. W. Jenkins, Miss L. M. Tucker, and one vacancy, Scale C.
Accra Technical School —
Principal, H. C. Weston, 960l., duty allowance 96l.
Housemaster, vacant, Scale C.
European Masters, T. A. Calvin, W. T. Parrett, G. Sutton, T. M. Ritchie, and one vacancy, Scale C.
Junior Trade Schools —
Headmasters, J. S. McFerran, R. Horley, B. D. Burnett, J. Bevan, Scale C.

Government Primary Schools, Boys —
African Head Masters, three vacancies, 400l. by 25l. to 600l. by 36l. to 780l.
Assistant Headmasters, I. S. Lamptey, J. Ayansu, 300l. by 12l. to 396l.
Government Primary Schools, Girls —
African Headmistress, Miss M. K. Quartey-Papasio, 400l. by 25l. to 600l.

Northern Territories.
Superintendent of Education, Rev. A. H. Candler, 960l., duty allowance 96l.
Masters, J. S. Dunn and J. Wilson, Scale C.
European Headmistress, Miss M. E. Allen, Scale C.
Headmaster, Junior Trade School, Tamale, J. Bevan, Scale C.

Achimota College.
Principal, Rev. A. G. Fraser, C.B.E., 1,600l., duty allowance 320l.
Vice Principal, Rev. R. C. Blumer, 1,000l. by 50l. to 1,200l., duty allowance 200l.
Assistant Vice-Principal, Rev. C. K. Williams, and one vacancy, 1,000l., duty allowance, 200l.
Headmistress, Miss M. C. Clark, 720l. to 920l., duty allowance 120l.
Masters, Rev. C. E. Stuart, S. T. Dunstan, F. R. Irvine, C. S. Deakin, W. E. F. Ward, A. G. Fraser, junr., P. P. Brown, D. Benziez, J. Scragg, E. S. Watson, W. J. K. Bunner, D. T. Adams, H. C. Neill, D. G. R. Herbert, A. R. B. Fraser, C. P. Woodhouse, Capt. F. Maxwell Lawford, M.R.E., J. R. Marshall, Rev. J. Bardley, G. E. Hood, F. E. Joselin, A. P. Brown, E. D. C. Clark, and one vacancy, Scale C, A. H. R. Joseph (Games), Scale C, with maximum 790l.
Mistresses, L. O. Deakin, D. J. B. Blair, N. M. F. George, E. D. Plumptre, C. E. K. Hallins, E. M. Etherington, M. J. Field, J. Woodhouse, and three vacancies, Scale C, with maximum 720l.
Kindergarten Mistress, A. M. Witten, 700l. by 30l. to 1,020l.
Physical Instructor, J. H. Rignell, 500l. by 20l. to 600l.
Bursar, A. D. W. Skinner, 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l.
College Secretary, Miss G. E. Moss, 400l. by 15l. to 430l. by 30l. to 600l.
Matrons, Miss M. I. Williams, Miss E. M. Cooke, Scale C, with maximum of 600l.
Medical Officer, D. R. Griffith, M.B., B.S., 660l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 960l.

Department of Agriculture.
Director of Agriculture, G. G. Auchinleck, M.Sc., F.I.C., 1,200l., plus 240l. duty allowance.
Deputy Director of Agriculture, H. H. Waters, B.A., 1,000l., plus 200l. duty allowance.
Botanical Division, T. Lloyd Williams, B.A., A.I.C.T.A., A. S. Thomas, M.Sc., A.I.C.T.A., 600l. by 30l. to 720l., by 40l. to 920l., with 72l. seniority allowance from 720l.
Chemical Division, R. Coull, B.Sc., 600l. by 30l. to 720l., by 40l. to 920l., with 72l. seniority allowance from 720l.
Clerical and Finance Division, J. M. Dunbar, Scale A with maximum of 720l., H. G. Wilmot, 300l. to 396l.
Entomological Division, G. S. Cotterell, A.R.C.S., D.I.C., F.E.S., W. Cook, B.A., A.I.C.T.A., 600l. by 30l. to 720l., by 40l. to 920l., with 72l. seniority allowance from 720l.

For Scales A to F, see footnote on page 306.
Experiment Stations:
Tamale, J. E. Symond, A.I.C.T.A., G. Cowan, N.D.A., A.I.C.T.A., C. W. Lynn, M.S.E.A.C., Scale C.
Kpese, H. K. Hewison, A.I.C.T.A., F.L.S., C. W. J. Line, B.A., A.R.C.S.I., J. M. Ward, N.D.A., Scale C.
Coconut, W. C. Fishlock, E. M. Cook, M.S.E.A.C., Scale C.
Rice, F. A. Robb, B.Sc., N.D.A., Scale C.

Extension Work:
Western Province, J. Steele, M.C., N.D.A., N.D.D., C. L. Skidmore, B.Sc., A.I.C.T.A., Scale C.
Keta-Ada District, J. T. H. Stein, B.Sc., Scale C.
Horticultural Division, G. H. Eady, Scale C; S. T. Phillips, Scale C with maximum of 600l.
Inspectorate of Plants and Produce, A. B. Culham, B. T. Steenson, B.A., J. M. Wingate, A.I.C.T.A., L. J. Packham, A.R.C.S.I., N.D.A., Scale C; H. E. Green, E. D. Hill, H. L. Hill, W. R. Hudson, D. V. Parkes, F. Pyatt, G. D. Ross, Scale C with a maximum of 600l.
Instructorate, G. C. Coull, B.Sc., Scale C.
Mycological Division, H. A. Dade, A.R.C.S., J. Wright, B.Sc., A.I.C.T.A., 600l. by 30l. to 720l., by 40l. to 920l., with 72l. seniority allowance from 720l.
Publications and Meteorological Division, N. P. Chamney, B.Sc., M.S.E.A.C., Scale C.
Rural Economics Division, A. W. Paterson, N.D.A., N.D.D., J. L. Scott, B.Sc., Scale C.
Statistics and Surveys Division, A. C. Miles, W. H. Beckett, M.A., Univ.Dip.Agri., F.S.S., J. C. Muir, B.Sc., N.D.A., N.D.D., J. D. Broath, B.Sc., Scale C.; J. S. Martinson, 400l. by 25l. to 600l., by 30l. to 780l.
Training Centre, T. Hunter, H. Nicholas, B.A., Univ.Dip.Agri., W. T. O. Maidment, B.A., Scale C., E. W. A. B. Sam, B.Sc., 400l. to 780l.

Forestry Department.
Conservator of Forests, L. A. King-Church, 1,200l., duty allowance 240l.
Deputy Conservator of Forests, appointment in abeyance, 960l., duty allowance 96l.
Assistant Conservators of Forests, Capt. R. W. Brent, M.C., N. T. Garnett, H. W. Moor, P. G. Arnold, Capt. G. S. Greene, L. C. Rowney, J. A. Willa, F. Burnett, M.M., C. Vigne, A. J. Cox, G. M. Tolmie, W. T. S. Brown, F. E. Hughes, G. C. Beavan, I. A. Beveridge, Scale C.
European Foresters, H. G. McKay, L. V. Wilcox, B. Bennett, Scale F.

Mines Department.
Secretary for Mines, A. T. Roberts, B.Sc., A.M.I.C.E., A.I.M.M., F.G.S., 1,200l., and 240l. duty allowance.
Inspector of Mines, Capt. R. P. Wild, F.G.S., A.I.M.M., Scale C.
Inspector of Machinery, P. V. R. Bray, A.M.I.Mech.E., A.M.I.Mar.E., Scale C.

Geological Survey.
Director of Geological Survey, Major N. R. Janner, M.C., 1,200l., and duty allowance 240l.
Assistant Director of Geological Survey (vacant), 960l., duty allowance 96l.
Personal Assistant, W. J. Felton, B.Sc.(Econ.), F.R.Econ.S., Scale A, with maximum 720l.
Geologists, W. G. G. Cooper, B.Sc., F.G.S., A.R.C.S., A.I.M.M., O. A. L. Whitelaw, F.R.G.S., M.I.M.M., D. P. McGregor, B.Sc., and one vacancy, 540l. by 30l. to 720l., by 40l. to 920l., plus seniority allowance 72l. from 720l.
Superintendent of Records (London Office), W. T. James, 600l.

For Scales A to F, see footnote on page 306.

The Gold Coast Regiment, R.W.A.F.F.
Commanding Officer, Colonel G. V. Breffitt, M.C., p.s.c. 1,200l. and 10s. per day duty pay.
Second-in-Command, Major B. R. French, D.S.O., 950l.
Staff Officer, Captain M. A. Green, M.C., 750l. and 5s. per day duty pay.
Adjutant, Lieut. E. J. Newall, 700l. and 5s. per day duty pay.
Quartermaster, Captain W. M. Harrington, M.C., M.M., 700l. by 25l. to 800l.
Intelligence Officer, Captain W. S. Wise, 700l.
O.C. Signal School, Lieut. R. E. A. G. Badger, 600l., and 2s. 6d. per day duty pay.
O.C. Battery, Captain H. G. de Burgh, O.B.E., M.C., 750l.
O.C. Machine Gun Company, Captain G. T. Bullard, 700l.
O.C. Depot, Captain L. C. Heygate, 600l. and 3s. per day duty pay.
Five Captains, Infantry, 700l.
Three Subalterns, Artillery, 600l.
Two Subalterns, M.G. Platoon, 600l.
Seventeen Subalterns, Infantry (ten at 600l., seven at 510l.)

The Gold Coast Territorial Force.
Officer Commanding, Lt.-Colonel H. J. L. Cavanaugh.
Adjutant, Captain D. M. Noyes-Lewis, The South Wales Borderers, 600l. and 5s. per day duty pay.

The Gold Coast Defence Force.
Adjutant, Capt. G. S. Fillingham, M.C., Durham Light Infantry, 600l. and 5s. per day duty pay.
Staff Sergt., Company-Sergt.-Major E. A. L. Page.

Police Department.
Inspector General of Police, Lt.-Col. H. W. M. Bamford, O.B.E., M.C., 1,200l., and 240l. duty allowance.
Deputy Inspector General of Police, E. W. de T. Prevost, 960l., and 96l. duty allowance.
Staff Officer, G. A. Champion, Scale A.
Inspector of Weights and Measures, H. Inman, 450l. by 16l. to 600l.
Office Assistant and Accountant, H. Geo. Annan, 300l. by 12l. to 384l., 400l. by 20l. to 500l.
Commissioner of Police, Criminal Investigation Department, N. S. Mansergh, M.B.E., Scale A.
Commissioner of Police, Criminal Investigation Department, A. W. G. Moorman, Scale A.
Senior Commissioner of Police, Capt. L. S. D. H. Venour, V. E. R. de Cartaret, 960l. and 96l. duty allowance.
Commissioners and Assistant Commissioners of Police, B. C. Sanderson, H. J. O'Connor, Capt. E. K. W. Thompson, Major F. L. Hamilton, M.C., E. F. L. Penno, J. C. Piegrone, M.C., Capt. H. M. Mitchell, M.C., Capt. J. W. S. Barlow, C. E. Duruty, M.C., P. Eckel, M. L. Fraser, Major C. T. Williams, O.B.E., Major H. E. Smith, M.C., Major B. A. S. Bennett, Capt. D. S. Gowing, J. E. Workman, J. P. Gildea, Capt. C. E. Wingrove, R. Tottenham, G. C. Grand, H. P. Morris, W. A. Govan, Major F. C. Prickett, O.B.E., M.C., R. A. Jones, M.C., C. J. Pym, S. C. Sinclair, Major R. J. A. Betham, Capt. N. G. Maclean, G. E. Gilbey, Scale A.
African Assistant Commissioner of Police, W. H. Simons, 375l., 425l., by 25l. to 600l., by 36l. to 780l.
Bandmaster, G. T. March, 400l. by 12l. to 500l.

Prisons Department.
Director of Prisons, H. J. L. Cavanaugh, 960l., and 96l. duty allowance.

For Scales A to F, see footnote on page 306.
Deputy Director of Prisons, H. F. Bloxham, 600l., by 30l. to 720l., by 40l. to 920l., and 72l. duty allowance.

Senior Prison Superintendents, J. Concannon and C. H. Conn, 540l., by 30l. to 720l.

Prison Superintendent, A. J. Avenell, J. H. Conibear, J. G. Habbishow, Scale F.

Technical Instructors, A. A. Wood, J. T. Mills, 500l., by 12l. to 560l.

Assistant Prison Superintendent, P. H. Roberts, 235l., by 15l. to 340l.

Chief Clerk, H. J. Q. Thompson, 300l., by 12l. to 396l.

Survey Department.

Surveyor General, J. Clendenning, B.Sc., A.M.I.C.E., 1,200l., plus 240l. duty allowance.

Deputy Surveyor General, W. F. Mindham, B.Sc., 1,050l., plus 210l. duty allowance.

Assistant Surveyor General, Capt. S. C. Saward, M.C., M.M., 960l., and 96l. duty allowance.

Secretary and Accountant, P. G. Macdonald, Scale A, maximum 720l.

Record Keeper and Cartographer, F. C. Blake, Scale C.

Chief Draughtsmen, A. F. R. Morris, G. D. Meredith, Scale C, maximum 800l.

Draughtsmen, W. T. Harrington, L-Cpl. H. E. Meredith, R.E., 500l. to 560l., by 12l.

Chief Lithographer, G. Fisher, Scale C, maximum 720l.

Lithographic Draughtsman, L/Sgt. T. M. Smith, R.E., 500l. to 560l., by 12l.

Lithographic Prover and Vandyker, H. R. Dunn, 500l. to 560l., by 12l.

Lithographic Printer, J. L. Henderson, 500l. to 560l., by 12l.

Instructor, Survey School, W. Cutland, Scale C.

Computer and Examiner, vacant, Scale C.

Research Officer, F. Yates, B.A., Scale C.

Surveyors, P. Hallahan, K. M. Vaughan, C. R. Petty, G. C. Rogerson, M.C., M. W. Hayes, W. Gemmell, E. W. Kenward, Major E. W. Nesham, Capt. C. L. M. Douet, B.Sc., G. C. L. Chamberlain, J. Brown, E. W. W. Brown, A. V. Lawes, E. G. Hallett, Capt. H. Wace, R.E., and Capt. A. E. W. Nesbitt, M.C., Scale C.

African Surveyors, K. Asante, A. A. Young, 400l., by 25l. to 600l., by 36l. to 780l.

Supernumerary Surveyors (Temporary Assistance), J. F. W. Plascott, Sgt. P. A. Sly, D.C.M., R.E., one vacancy, Scale C.

Forest Reserves Boundary Survey.

Officers, Lieut. D. M. Eley, R.E. (one vacancy), 720l. to 920l., by 40l., plus 72l. seniority allowance.

Land Department.

Commissioner of Lands, H. E. G. Bartlett, 1,350l., plus 270l. duty allowance.

Deputy Commissioner of Lands, W. L. Shepley-Taylor, 1,050l., plus 210l. duty allowance.

Assistant Commissioners of Lands, G. W. Staunpoole, J. A. Rioe, E. W. Davies, W. T. Roe, S. L. Binns, J. P. Feeny, D. H. Shackles, L. A. W. Orr, Scale C.

Executive Officers, H. F. Skelton, I. S. Thomas, Scale A.

Record Draughtsmen, S. T. Jenkins, L. G. Devereux, Scale C, with maximum of 800l.

Surveyors and Inspectors of Lands, A. C. Pollard, A. C. Pratley, Scale C.

Transport Department.

Chief Transport Officer, R. Nichols, A.M.Inst.T., 750l.-40l.-920l., plus 80l. duty allowance.

Engineer Transport Officers, A. H. Cruickshank, Capt. E. Doole, R.E., Capt. H. A. Jarred, Scale C.

For Scales A to F, see footnote on page 306.

Transport Officer, J. L. Blanch, Scale A.

Accountant, J. A. Kelly, Scale A, maximum 720l.

European Filters, G. F. L. Howarth, A. E. Ebdy, Scale F.

African Assistant Transport Officers, T. Abraham and J. K. Ansah, 300l. to 396l., by 12l.

Public Works Department.

I. Direction.

Director of Public Works, J. D. Sharman, M.I.M. & C.E., 1,500l., plus 300l. duty allowance.

Deputy Director of Public Works, Major S. Banks Kent, M.C., R.E. (R. of O.), M.I.S.E., M.R.S.I., F.R.G.S., 1,200l., plus 240l. duty allowance.

Assistant Directors of Public Works, P. Hall, A.M.I.C.E., J. L. Longbottom, B.Sc.(London), A.M.I.C.E., 1,060l. plus 210l. duty allowance.

Secretary, R. S. Stephens, Scale A, maximum 720l.

Stock Verifier, F. Barlow, Scale A, maximum 900l.

Estate Officer, J. O. Plange, 350l.-20l.-450l.

II. Provincial Engineering Staff.

Senior Provincial Engineer, H. Gayton, F.S.I., A.M.Q.S.A., 960l., plus 96l. duty allowance.

Provincial Engineers, S. Gifford, Capt. D. R. Mackie, M.C., A.M.I.C.E., E. M. W. Williams, Capt. J. T. Longstaff, A.M.I.(Mun. & Cy.), Scale C, with 92l. duty allowance.

Executive Engineers, H. Dyson, A.M.I.C.E., T. A. Finch, B.A., B.A.I., A.M.I.C.E., G. C. Cathbert, J. C. Renshaw, F.S.I., F.R.G.S., M.Geol.Assn., A.M.L.A.E., H. Williams, A. Holland, A.M.E.I.C. (Canada), E. Govett, R. M. Fisher, H. O. Hooper, J. Cumming, W. J. Goldfinch (Municipal Engineer), A.M.I.San.E., A.R.S.I., Major C. Alderson, D.S.O., B.Sc.(Eng.), N. J. Silcock, A.M.I.M.E.(Australia), W. A. Coveney, B.Sc., A.M.I.C.E., C. J. Rigby, B.Sc. (Eng.), G. F. Stewart, J. W. Watts, J. W. Croxford, M.I.M.&C.E., A. Drury, B.E.(Ireland), A.M.I.C.E., A. G. McPherson, A.R.S.I., M.I.M. & C.E., W. L. North, A.M.I.C.E., G. Little, G. R. Lloyd, W. Hopps, F. S. Drake, A. V. S. Henderson, Scale C.

Chief Inspectors of Works, O. Jelly, A. H. M. Harding, E. A. Bradfield, 600l.

Inspectors of Works, Grade I., F. J. Neal, W. J. Twydell, E. H. Brewer, F. J. Duval, J. Hall, W. C. Boniface, B. O. W. Cantrell, T. Simpson, A. N. Strachan, J. Williamson, A. T. Wood, A. E. Tromp, W. H. Smith, W. H. J. Whatley, C. Smith, E. Tomes, J. G. F. England, W. N. Watson, W. C. Lee, R. J. Fry, W. Macfarlane, 500l.-12l.-560l.

Inspectors of Works, Grade II., F. C. Holman, J. Bailey, P. Reid, J. D. Mitchell, M. L. Manuel, J. W. Snowden, A. J. Bannister, C. Featherstone, A. W. Garden, J. Wilkins, H. A. Peters, W. Quinlan, C. A. Ford, A. J. Battle, J. W. Green, W. J. Alsop, W. T. Lewis, J. W. Hopper, W. J. Hardy, H. E. Dixon, H. Parkin, N. B. Darroch, J. McCracken, A. J. Underhill, W. H. Robins, C. V. Pexton, D. Manson, W. Cowbrough, A. McLauchlan, Scale F.

Workshops Foreman, G. Taylor, 600l.

African Foremen of Works, E. G. Quartey, J. M. Hudson, 250l.-10l.-350l.

III. Public Health Engineering Staff.

Senior Public Health Engineer, L. M. Grover, A.M.I.C.E.(1), P.A.S.I., M.S.E., 960l. plus 96l. duty allowance.

Public Health Engineers, W. G. Jamieson, B.Sc., A.M.I.C.E., W. R. Sheffield, A.M.I.C.E., 600l.-920l.

For Scales A to F, see footnote on page 306.
Inspector of Works (Drainage), H. E. Jarvis, Scale C.

Maintenance Engineers (Waterworks), S. M. Colman, A.M.I.C.E., E. J. Wainwright, D. W. McCulloch, Scale C.

Filter Supervisors, J. F. Wiggett, H. Pank, D.S.M., 600l.

Distribution Foremen, T. Powles, 500l.–12l.–560l.; A. W. J. Taylor, J. T. D. Kitchingham, P. F. Flood, F. C. Jones, H. Jones, Scale F.

Engineering Chemist, H. E. Course, A.I.C., Scale C, with 72l. seniority allowance.

Senior Hydraulic Engineer, J. R. Roberts, 960l., plus 96l. duty allowance.

Assistant Engineers, J. H. F. Sharkie and W. L. Rees, Scale C.

IV. Mechanical Engineering Staff.

Chief Mechanical Engineer, F. Hinton, Scale C, plus 80l. duty allowance.

Mechanical Engineer, G. B. Morgan, A.M.I.M.E., J. C. L. Taylor, T. F. Quinlan, J. Maiden, Scale C.

General Filters, R. J. Gregg, H. Leigh, J. H. Hill, J. McNeill, at 600l.–12l.–560l., R. Macaulay, W. J. Phillips, R. U. Nicholson, H. Horsfall, E. A. White, T. Cox, R. B. Smith, W. J. Veal, T. J. Wright, Scale F.

V. Architectural and Drawing Office Staff.

Chief Architect, I. B. Pite, M.A., A.R.I.B.A., 960l., plus 96l. duty allowance.

Assistant Chief Architect (vacant).

Architects, J. R. W. Reid, Lic.R.I.B.A., A.M.I.Struct.E., C. S. Morley, A.R.I.B.A., A.M.I.Struct.E., Scale C.

European Draughtsmen, E. F. Carey, C. A. G. Mandel, Scale C, maximum 800l.

Structural Engineer, H. Cooper, M.I.Struct.E., Scale C.

Engineering Draughtsmen, C. W. H. Lawrence, Scale C, maximum 800l.

Quantity Surveyors, R. P. Bush, Lic.R.I.B.A., A.M.I.Struct.E., L. A. Hagen, P.A.S.I., Scale C, maximum 800l.

VI. Accounting and Storekeeping Staff.

(a) Headquarters Accounting Staff.

Chief Accountant, H. E. Dean, 800l.–40l.–920l., plus 80l. duty allowance.

Assistant Chief Accountant (vacant), Scale A, maximum 800l.

(b) Headquarters Storekeeping Staff.

Chief Storekeeper, T. M. Logan, M.M., 800l.–40l.–920l., plus 80l. duty allowance.

Accountants, L. W. Bowden, J. D. Haugh, vacant, Scale A, maximum 800l.

Assistant Accountants, R. E. Hunt, J. A. Hutchinson, W. T. Taylor, A. E. Edwards, J. H. Julyan, A. D. W. Allen, R. L. Grennan, Scale, A, maximum 720l.

Mechanical Storekeepers, J. L. G. Jones, J. W. Stevenson, Scale A, maximum 800l.

VII. Electric Light and Power Staff.

Chief Electrical Engineer, vacant, 720l.–40l.–920l., plus 80l. duty allowance.

Electrical Engineers, G. H. C. Stopart, A.M.I.E.E., B. McGuckin, B.Sc., A.M.I.C.E., B. F. Smith-Cleburne, Scale C.

Electrical Filters, W. H. Evans, W. Allan, G. Wilkins, A. H. Clarke, V. Longdon, E. Fitton, J. E. Atkinson, F. J. Smith, W. Beatty, R. D. Swan, J. W. Foster, R. W. Huson, at 500l.–12l.–560l., or Scale F.

For Scales A to F, see footnote on page 306.

Assistant Accountant, R. A. Bignell, Scale A, maximum, 720l.

Special Staffs for Municipal Engineering Works.

Municipal Engineer, Capt. W. J. Goldfinch, A.M.I.San.E., A.R.S.I., Scale C.

Inspector of Works, W. MacFarlane, Scale F.

European Building Inspectors, T. E. J. King, H. O. Ventress, J. H. Hutchinson, R. H. Phillips, W. Studholme, M. Holdsworth, A. C. Fairbrother, M.C., Scale A, maximum 800l.

Kumasi Town Engineering Branch.

Assistant Engineers, F. S. Drake, B.Sc., A. D. Cram, Scale C.

Foreman of Works, F. C. Holman, Scale F.

European Building Inspectors, F. A. Grant, H. L. Evans, Scale A, maximum 720l.

African Subordinate Staff.

Chief African Draughtsmen, M. H. Addy, J. Q. Solomon, 300l.–12l.–396l.

Sub-Assistant Accountants, B. Y. Quarshie, D. Sackey, J. O. Renner, J. De Graft, L. A. Nmai, 300l.–12l.–396l.

Superintendent of Correspondence Branch, G. A. Yankah, 300l.–12l.–396l.

Two African Surveyors, E. E. Tham, K. K. Ogooe, 300l.–12l.–396l.

Harbour Construction Staff, Takoradi.

Chief Resident Engineer, W. Hewitt (Harbour Engineer), 1,260l. and 260l. duty allowance (acting).

Engineer, D. G. Anderson, 1,000l. and 200l. duty allowance.

Senior Inspector of Works, E. C. Wade (Diver), 380l. plus 120l. Charge and 48l. Diving allowance.

Inspector of Works, W. Troughton (Diver), 580l. and 48l. allowance to Divers.

