THE TRANSVAAL.

Situation and General Description.

The Transvaal Territory lies between the 22nd and 28th parallel of south latitude, and the 25° and 30° east longitude. It may be said generally to be bounded by the Orange River, the Lebombo Mountains, the Limpopo River, and the Kalihari Desert; but the boundaries remain in some directions still undefined. The area is about 112,000 square miles.

The southern portion of the territory is traversed from west to east by a high plateau, which forms the watershed between the rivers running south and those running north, of which the chief are respectively the Vaal and the Limpopo. Besides this elevated plateau, called the Hooge Veldt, there are three mountain ranges which cross the country from west to east, of which the most northerly and important is called the Zoutpansberg, in the district of the same name. Detached ranges, which are continuations of the Drakensberg Mountains, extend from the Natal boundary to the Oliphant's River, north of Lydenburg, in the eastern districts. These rise in places to an elevation of 7,000 feet.

The country is well watered, and rich in springs, and the surface soil is covered with a sward of a particularly good quality, affording pasture for horses, sheep, and cattle. In the southern districts the habit has existed of burning off the grass in the dry winter season, on the ground that it improved
the pasturage. This practice has produced a great scarcity of shrubs and trees. In the middle and north parts of the country vegetation is plentiful and luxuriant, and there are still some extensive forests in the country, the principal of which are the Pangola Bush, in Utrecht, and the Houtbosch in Zoutpansberg, in which latter forest ebony and mahogany trees have been found, of considerable height and dimensions.

All the districts of the Colony are well adapted for cattle breeding and the growth of cereals. In the south, also, that is in Potchefstroom, South Pretoria, Heidelberg, New Scotland, Middelberg, Wakkerstroom, and Utrecht, horses may be bred, but in the middle and north districts, such as North Pretoria, Lydenburg, Zoutpansberg, and Waterberg, the conditions are unfavourable for breeding horses, as also for breeding small stock. These latter districts are suitable to the production of sugar-cane, coffee, and cotton. The Transvaal is rich in minerals, such as gold, copper, lead, cobalt, iron, and coal. Auriferous quartz was discovered by a German traveller, in 1868, in a range of hills north of the Oliphant's River, afterwards called Murchison's Rangea. In 1873, alluvial gold was found in the district of Lydenburg, where there is now a digging population of some hundreds. Gold has also been found at Buffelspoort Farm, in the district of Waterberg, on the Crocodile and Komati Rivers, Schoenspruit, in the district of Marico, on the townlands of Pretoria, and at Marabastad, where the gold mine is worked by an English company.

History.

The Transvaal Territory was peopled by emigrant Cape farmers. The first destination of these emigrants was Natal, but upon the annexation of Natal to the English Crown, most of the emigrants left the new district, and turning back over the Drakensberg went, some to the Orange River Territory, and others to the country beyond the Vaal. In 1848 British sovereignty was extended over the Orange River Territory, but no attempt was made by the British Government to exercise authority over its unwilling subjects beyond the Vaal, and in January, 1852, a treaty was made with them by which they were recognised as independent, and a promise made that they would not be interfered with in the management of their own affairs. This treaty is known as the Sand River Convention. The emigrants at this time formed three independent communities, which did not unite until 1858, when they adopted for themselves the name of the South African Republic. After 15 years of somewhat chequered history, the people of the Transvaal elected as President the Rev. Thomas Burgers, a talented and enlightened Lutheran clergyman from the Cape Colony, and high hopes were entertained by many for the future of the Republic under his guidance. These hopes were not fulfilled. Misfortunes followed one another in rapid succession, and only ended with the collapse of the Government, and the extinction of the Republic.

The President early conceived the project of a railway to be made from Delagoa Bay into the Republic, to carry its produce profitably to the sea; and to promote this project he visited Europe in 1875, concluded a treaty with Portugal respecting it, and essayed to launch a loan of 300,000l. in Amsterdam, of which, however, only about 74,000l. were subscribed. This money he spent in buying plant for the proposed railway, which is now lying at Delagoa Bay. In the meantime the provisional Government of the Republic had drifted into a dispute with the formidable Zulu King, Cetywayo, touching the boundary of Utrecht Province; and on his return the President himself engaged, first in a dispute with, and then in actual military operations against Sakukuni, a small Bechuana chief living on the north-east of the Republic, whose country was claimed under an ambiguous and not very intelligible treaty in the Dutch language, to which some Boers had obtained the assent of Sakukuni's father in the year 1857. The operations against Sakukuni, which were upon a large scale looking to the resources of the Republic, and were directed in person by the President, ended in disaster. The Republican field army melted away, a guerilla war, however, being continued by a small mercenary force until a peace was concluded early in 1877. In the meantime the war, and the subsequent defeat of the Boers by an insignificant tribe of an unwarlike branch of the native race, was producing the most alarming excitement in the native mind, and, the peace of South Africa being in evident peril, Her Majesty's Government at once despatched Sir Theophilus Shepstone, who happened to be in London at the time, to South Africa, as a Special Commissioner from Her Majesty, to watch events, and take such action as might be necessary to secure the general peace. When Sir Theophilus Shepstone arrived in the Transvaal, he found that the peace with Sakukuni was but a hollow one, as the chief declared that he had never assented to, and knew nothing of, its principal article; while at the same time the attitude of the Zulu King on the east was such that his irruption into the Republic with an overwhelming force might at any moment be expected. The condition of the Government was past hope. The finances, which had never flourished, had wholly broken down under the strain of war expenditure and a foreign loan. The public servants were unpaid. The treasury was empty. The people would no longer pay taxes, and the banks, to which the Republic was heavily in debt, refused further advances. The coercive authority of the Government over its own subjects had ceased, and its defensive power against the enemies whom it had provoked was nil. In these circumstances—the Republican Government having in effect ceased to exist, and being incapable of revival—Sir Theophilus Shepstone saw no other course but to proclaim the Queen's sovereignty, and set up a Government. This he did on the 12th of April by a proclamation which has been approved by Her Majesty.

Troops were sent from Natal upon annexation, and nearly 1,000 of Her Majesty's forces are now stationed in the province.

The Government continues to be administered by Sir Theophilus Shepstone under powers contained in the commission given him when sent to the Transvaal as Special Commissioner in 1876.

There are no statistics to show the extent of the trade of the country; and no definite estimate can be formed of its financial position, which subject, however, is being investigated by Mr. W. C. Sargassant, C.M.G., one of the Crown Agents for the Colonies, who has been sent to the Transvaal by the Secretary of State as a Special Commissioner to assist Sir Theophilus Shepstone in putting the financial position upon a clear footing. Parliament, in the session of 1877, voted a sum of 100,000l. in aid of Transvaal Funds.

There are supposed to be about 36,000 whites in the province, and the native population has been variously estimated at from 350,000 to 1,000,000.
Civil Establishment.

Administrator of the Government, Sir Theophilus Shepstone, K.C.M.G., 2,500l.
Private Secretary,
Secretary to Government, M. Osborn, 800l.
1st Clerk, H. Stiemens, 300l.
2nd ditto, C. van Boeschoten, 250l.
3rd ditto, F. C. Stiemens, 150l.
Clerk, H. Rider Haggard, 250l.
Extra Clerk, A. S. Dawson, 120l.
Secretary, Native Affairs, H. C. Shepstone, 800l.

Under Commissioners, Native Affairs.

Zoutpansberg, Oscar Dahl, 300l.
Waterberg, W. V. King, 240l.
New Scotland, 300l.

Treasurer, N. J. R. Swart, 700l.
Clerk, D. M. Kisch, 250l.
Surveyor-General, S. Melvill, 600l.
Clerk, F. H. Kissick, 100l.
Auditor, H. C. Bergsma, 500l.
Clerk, J. Vogel, 225l.
Postmaster-General, J. A. de Vogel, 400l.
Registrar of Deeds, J. J. Meintjes, 500l.
1st Clerk, J. C. Minnaar, 225l.
2nd ditto, R. K. Loveday, 175l.
3rd ditto, A. C. H. Lorentz, 150l.
Superintendent of Education, W. J. van Gorkhom, 600l.
Commissioner, Lydenburg, M. J. Clarke, 600l.

Judicial.

Judge of the High Court, J. G. Kotze, 1,000l.
Master and Registrar, H. W. van Breda (H. Rider Haggard, acting), 500l.
Sheriff, C. J. Juta, 300l.
Attorney-General, Dr. Jorissen, 600l.
Clerk, F. W. H. Kapteyn, 150l.

Landdrosts (Magistrates).

Pretoria, W. Skinner, 400l.
1st Clerk, J. C. Krogh, 250l.
2nd ditto, C. A. E. Becker, 125l.
Potchefstroom, A. M. Goetz, 400l.
1st Clerk, G. H. Buskers, 250l.
2nd ditto, T. J. Krogh, 125l.
Lydenburg, G. A. Roth, 400l.
Clerk, C. van Brandis, 175l.
Rustenburg, P. J. van Staden, 400l.
Clerk, A. F. Schattenkerk, 250l.
Heidelberg, F. K. Maré, 400l.
Clerk, C. Ueckermann, 175l.
Wakkerstroom, T. S. Hutchinson, 400l.
Clerk, H. W. van Rossem, 175l.
Middelburg, J. Scoble (acting), 400l.
Clerk, M. Eyssell, 175l.
Utrecht, G. M. Rudolph, 400l.
Clerk, C. L. Scheffer, 175l.
Marico, P. A. van Yperen, 400l.
Clerk, J. A. Butner, 175l.
Bloemhof, W. Best, 400l.
Clerk, M. C. Geis, 175l.
Wat-berg, C. Moll, (acting), 400l.
Clerk, C. Jeppa, 175l.
Zoutpansberg, C. F. Zrewogel, 400l.
Clerk, R. Impoy, 175l.

Lydenburg Gold Fields, Gold Commissioner, John Scoble (James Gunn, acting), 450l.
Clerk, J. E. Glinister, 180l.
Lichtenburg Commissioner, C. B. Scholtz, 800l.

