ZANZIBAR.

The Sultanate of Zanzibar was formerly an appanage of Muscat, but in 1861 became independent under an arbitration by Lord Canning (then Governor-General of India). The dominions, besides Zanzibar Island, comprise the Island of Pemba and several other small islands, and until late years the Sultan's authority extended over the Coast of East Africa, from Warsheikin in 3° N. latitude to Tunguhi Bay in 10°42' S. latitude. This authority has, however, been ceded, as regards the Coast dominions, to Italy, Great Britain, and Germany respectively; Great Britain still paying rent for the territory under their protection, whilst Germany and Italy have acquired the Sultan's rights by the payment of sums of 200,000l. and 144,000l. respectively, Zanzibar Island itself, situated in 6° S. latitude, is the largest coraline island on the African coast, being 47 miles long by 20 broad, and contains an area of 640 square miles. The port of Zanzibar is one of the finest in Africa, and has long been the centre of all commerce between India, Arabia, and the mainland. It has an excellent water supply.

The climate is bad in the hot season, which lasts from December to March. The thermometer ranges from 77° to 90°, with a mean of 80° and an annual rainfall of 60 inches.

On the death of the Sultan in August, 1896, the palace was seized by Said Khaled, a member of his family, and to compel his submission the palace was bombarded by British warships. Seyyid Hamoud bin Mahomed was then installed. He died July 18th, 1902, and as his son, the present Sultan, Seyyid Ali, was then only eighteen years of age, a Regency was proclaimed until June 7th, 1905, when Seyyid Ali attained his majority.

In 1906 the Imperial Government assumed more direct control of the Protectorate and re-organised the Government.

Six miles to the north of Zanzibar lies the small and densely wooded but waterless Island of Tumbatu, and some 30 miles further north lies the Island of Pemba, with an area of 380 miles.

The islands are fertile, providing cloves, coconuts, chillies, and other tropical products, and the exports gathered from the mainland include ivory, rubber, gum, hides, ebony, and tortoise-shell. The principal imports are Manchester cotton goods, hardware, rice (from India), and coal.

The population is 197,199, which includes about 10,000 Arabs and about 20,000 Indians. The total European population numbers nearly 300.

The British Court was, in 1902, made the Appeal Court from the other Protectorates of Uganda, East Africa, and Nyasaland, but it has lately been decided to transfer this to Mombasa.

His Majesty's Agent and Consul-General, Edward Clarke.
H.M. Consul, J. H. Sinclair.
Vice-Consuls, H. S. London, R. M. Kohan.
Secretary to H.M. Agent, A. E. Brown.
Judge, Lindsey Smith.
Assistant Judges, J. W. Murison and T. S. Tomlinson.
Physician, Dr. Francis Charlesworth.
First Minister, Capt. F. R. Barton, C.M.G.
Secretary to First Minister, R. P. Sheldon.
Financial Member of Council and Treasurer, J. Corbett Davis.
Legal Member of Council and Attorney-General, P. Shearman Turner.
Collector of Zanzibar Island, L. A. Andrade.
Collector of Pemba Island, G. E. W. Money (acting).
Collector of Zanzibar Town, L. Andrade.
Assistant Collectors, A. Farre, T. F. Shaw, Capt. F. W. Durand, Lieut. A. M. Clark, R.N., C. D. Wallis.
Collector of Customs, W. B. Swinerd.
Assistant Collector of Customs, J. Sanderson.
P.M.O., Dr. G. A. MacDonald.
Assistant Medical Officers, Dr. H. Curwen, Dr. J. S. de Souza.
Surgeon to Hospital, Dr. P. B. Nariman.
Bacteriologist, J. G. Parham.
Health Officer, Dr. A. H. Spurrier.
Director of Agriculture, F. C. McClellan (acting).
Magistrates, H. Reed, G. T. Sills, W. F. L. Braidwood.
Commandant of Police, Major Cartwright.
Assistant Commandant, Captain J. A. Baillie, D.S.O.
Port Officer, Captain F. S. Bardo.
Assistant Port Officer, E. K. May.
Director of Education, S. Rivers-Smith.
Director of Public Works, A. R. Galbraith.
Assistant Director of Public Works, R. G. Crawley.
Chief Engineering Assistant, Public Works Department, L. K. Brindley.

OTHER MISCELLANEOUS POSSESSIONS.

ADEN.

The peninsula of Aden is situated in lat. 12° 47' N. and long. 45° 10' E., about 100 miles east of the Straits of Bab-el-Mandeb, on the Arabian coast. Besides the peninsula a strip of territory stretching about three miles inland belongs to England, the whole area being about eighty square miles. Dhala and El Hota are the principal villages outside the town of Aden. The rainfall rarely exceeds 7 inches in a year. The town of Aden is situated on the side of a rocky promontory, and is very strongly fortified. It is a most important coaling station, and also an entrepôt for the trade with Arabia. The exports consist of coffee, gums, skins and hides, cotton goods, dyes, feathers, spices, etc. The settlement is subject to the Government of Bombay, being presided over by
a Resident, who is also commander of the troops in the garrison. (For further information, see publications relating to India.)

PERIM, an island about five square miles in area, situated at the entrance of the Red Sea, is a dependency of Aden, and is administered from that port. It is also an important coaling depot for the merchant marine, and contains a lighthouse.

The Arab chiefships between Aden and Muscat territory are also in subordinate treaty relations with the Government of India, these relations being within the charge of the Aden Residency.

SOCOTRA, an island situated about 150 miles E.N.E. of Cape Guardafui, in 12° 19'—12° 42' lat., and 53° 21'—53° 30' long. and lying in the direct route to India, has been since 1876 under the Government of Aden, which pays a small subsidy to the Sultan of Keshin, to whom it belonged. It is famous for its aloes. The population of the island is about 12,000, of Arab descent. It is 72 miles by 22 miles, with peaks 200 feet high. It was formally placed under British protection by agreement with the Sultan in October, 1886, together with the neighbouring Abdal Kute and Bromers Islands.

ASCENSION.

The island of Ascension, 34 miles in area, lying in the South Atlantic, lat. 7° 53' S. and long. 14° 18' W., is under the supervision of the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty, who maintain a small naval station there. It was taken possession of in 1815, and is now garrisoned by marines. It is famous for its turtles, large numbers of which are caught between Dec. and May. The mail steamers from the Cape call there once a month, and it is connected by telegraph with St. Vincent, St. Helena, and Sierra Leone. It is a barren, rocky peak of purely volcanic origin, and destitute of vegetation, except at the highest point, 2,870 feet high, but has been cultivated to an extent permitting the maintenance of 3,000 sheep. All expenses are charged to naval funds.

TRISTAN DA CUNHA.

Tristan da Cunha is the principal of a group of islands lying in lat. 37° 6' S. long., 12° 2' W. It was taken possession of by a military force during the residence of Napoleon at St. Helena. Upon his death the garrison was withdrawn, with the exception of three men, who, with certain shipwrecked sailors, became the founders of the present settlement. For a long time only one of the settlers had a wife, but subsequently the others contracted with a sea captain to bring them wives from St. Helena. The population in April, 1909, was 95. The inhabitants practically enjoy their possessions in common, and there is no strong drink on the island, and no crime. It was at one time proposed to give them laws and a regular government, but this was found unnecessary for the above reasons, and they remain under the moral rule of their oldest inhabitant.

The inhabitants are spoken of as long-lived, healthy, moral, religious, and hospitable to strangers. A supply of stores and provisions was provided out of a grant voted by Parliament, and sent out by a man-of-war in 1886, nearly all the able-bodied men having been drowned while attempting to board a vessel in December, 1885.

In the way of live stock, the inhabitants have between them about 400 head of cattle, about 700 sheep, about 50 pigs, and an abundance of poultry. Potatoes do well, and a good crop is got annually. Apple trees and peach trees are in fair number, and bear well; there are also a few fig trees, but they do not fruit. The tree of the island, which apparently is a juniper, and upon which the islanders are dependent for their wood for fuel, is getting scarce in the neighbourhood of settlement, but is abundant further off, and there is no fear of supply failing. Communication with passing vessels has become rather more frequent of late; in 1908, twelve vessels were communicated with. The islanders have in all five canvas boats.

In January, 1904, the island was visited by H.M.S. "Odin" in order to ascertain whether the islanders would accept the offer of the Cape Government to settle them in the Cape Colony, but out of eleven families only three families elected to go. The islanders are liable from time to time to privations. In March, 1907, owing to information indicating probability of failure of supplies, relief was sent by His Majesty's Government by the "Greyhound," chartered at Cape Town. On this occasion also the inhabitants were unwilling to leave the island, and the Rev. J. G. Barrow, a clergyman who had gone to the island in April, 1906, reported that though there is sure to be privation from time to time, it does not cause absolute distress. (See correspondence presented to Parliament in Cd. 3098 and Cd. 3704.)

January, February, and March are the best months for visiting the island. It is in these months that weather at times becomes so settled that the islanders are able to make visits to Inaccessible and Nightingale Islands, which are some 25 miles off. They also are often able to visit these islands in November.

MISCELLANEOUS ISLANDS.

A number of islands and rocks throughout the world are British territory, or under British protection, but are not included in any Colony or separate Protectorate. Many of these have no permanent inhabitants, but are, or have been, leased by the Lords Commissioners of the Treasury for guano collection, or for coconut planting. The rents are paid into the Exchequer. Among such may be mentioned the Ashmore Group (Indian Ocean), Bird Island and Cato Island (in the Norfolk Island Group), Sombrero (West Indies, with a Board of Trade Lighthouse costing £200 annually), Raine Island, Bell Cay and Brangible Cay (near British New Guinea), Sydney Island, Phoenix Group (4° 25' S. lat., 171° 13' W. long.), the Caroline and Flint Islands (Pacific Ocean, 9° 56' S. lat., 150° 6' W. long., and 11° 26' S. lat., and 151° 48' W. long.), Malden Island (4° 1' S. lat., 155° 57' W. long.), leased to Messrs. Grice, Sunner, and Co., Starbuck Island, Vostoc, Gough, Nightingale and Inaccessible Islands (in the S. Atlantic), and there are many others.
Humphrey (Manahiki), and Rierson (Rakahanga) Islands, lying to the north of the Cook Islands, about 160° W. long. and 10° S. lat., were annexed in 1889. Christmas, Fanning, and Penrhyn Islands were annexed in March, 1888, in view of the possibility of their being utilised in connection with the projected telegraph cable from Vancouver to Australasia. Christmas Island (1° 57' N. lat., 157° 27' W. long.) is an atoll 90 miles in circumference, barren, with only brackish water. A trading firm collects mother-of-pearl shells. Fanning Island (3° 51' N. lat., 159° 22' W. long.) is a small atoll 9 miles by 4, covered with coconut trees, copra and guano being exported. This is a station of the Pacific cable. Penrhyn Island (9° S. lat., 158° 3' W. long.) is an atoll 30 miles in circumference, partly covered with coconut trees, and having a population of 300. Mother-of-pearl is exported. Suwarrow Island (13° 13' S. lat., 163° 9' W. long.) was annexed for a similar reason, 22nd April, 1888; a protectorate was established over Jarvis Island, the Phoenix group, comprising Phoenix, Birnie, Hull, Gardner and Sydney Islands, Washington or New York Island, and Palmyra Island and Johnson Island.* Palmerston, Penrhyn, Suwarrow, Humphrey, Rierson, and one or two other small islands were in 1901 annexed to New Zealand with the Cook Islands.

The Great and Little Basses and Minicoy are small islets in the Indian Ocean, with lighthouses maintained by the Board of Trade out of shipping dues levied on vessels passing, and collected at Ceylon, Mauritius, Straits, and Indian ports.

The Kuria-Muria Islands, five in number, off the south-east coast of Arabia, were ceded by the Imam of Muskat for the purpose of landing the Red Sea telegraph cable.

Amboyna Cay and Sprattley Island (lat. 8° 38' N., 111° 54' E. long.; lat. 7° 52' N., 112° 53' E. long.), two uninhabited sandbanks in the middle of the China Sea, lying about 240 miles N.W. of Borneo and 100 miles N. of Labuan, were annexed in 1877, and leased for guano collection. They are annually visited by Chinese junks for the purpose of collecting turtle.

* Afterwards withdrawn and acknowledged to belong to Hawaii, on condition that the right to land a cable is conceded if desired.
