HONDURAS.

British Honduras is a colony on the east coast of Central America, bounded on the north by the Mexican portion of Yucatan, on the west and south by the State of Guatemala, and on the east by the Bay of Honduras. The coast was discovered in 1502 by Columbus; and its early settlement is supposed to have been effected from Jamaica, by adventurers, who were attracted by the fine timber (logwood and mahogany) which grew on the banks of the Hondo and other rivers.

In 1670, a Treaty was entered into with Spain, acknowledging in a measure the territorial rights of Great Britain in the settlement. Sheltered by the provisions of this Treaty, the settlers still further encroached on Spanish soil.

The jealousy of the Spaniards was soon aroused by the increasing numbers and boldness of the adventurous woodcutters, and expeditions were fitted out for the purpose of expelling them from the territory. These expeditions were uniformly unsuccessful, and resulted in further territorial concessions to Great Britain. The attacks on the settlers were, however, renewed with rather better success, and the Spaniards succeeded in driving them from Campechy, and confining them within the limits of the first settlement.

Attacks were made on Belize in 1718, 1754, and 1779, and on the latter occasion, the Spaniards succeeded in capturing many of the settlers, who were shipped off as prisoners to Havannah.

By the Treaties of 1783 and 1786, Great Britain obtained from Spain a specific grant of the settlement, under certain limitations as to exercise of the rights of sovereignty and cultivation of the soil; but the boundaries were very imperfectly defined. In consequence of the conclusion of these treaties, there was a great influx of British settlers into Belize, from the Mosquito shore.

In 1798 the Spaniards again attacked the settlers, but were repulsed.

After this success, the settlers naturally asserted that the Colony was held by right of conquest, and that they were entirely absolved from the conditions imposed by the Treaties with Spain of 1783 and 1786.

The result of this position was, that they gradually extended their occupancies on the west to Garbutts Falls; and on the south from the Sibun to the Sarstoon river. These extensions were not noticed by Spain; and there would appear to have been a tacit acknowledgment by her that she had lost her rights, under the Treaties of 1783, 1786.

The territorial questions which have since given rise to so much discussion have been those relating to the boundaries between Honduras, Guatemala, and the Republic of Mexico. These republics advanced pretensions in the character of inheritors of the supposed rights of Spain; but they have benefited too much by the presence of the British, to have any real wish that they should retire within the limits of the Treaty of 1786.

