SAINT VINCENT.

The Island of Saint Vincent was discovered by Columbus on the 22nd of January, 1498. It is situated in 13° 10' N. latitude, and 60° 57' W. longitude, at a distance of 21 miles to the south-west of St. Lucia. It is 18 miles in length, and 11 in breadth, and contains about 85,000 acres of land. Some of the Grenadines, a chain of small islands lying between Grenada and St. Vincent, are comprised within the government of the latter island. The principal is Bequia, situated at a distance of 9 miles from the mainland.

Kingstown, the capital of St. Vincent, is situated at the bottom of an extensive bay, at the south-western extremity of the island. It consists of three principal streets, each about a mile long, running parallel with the beach, and contains a population of 5,000 souls.

Saint Vincent, though exhibiting some features in common with the other islands, is favourably distinguished from many of them by an undulating surface, and a succession of gentle slopes, of which portions are cultivated for sugar-cane. Its most striking peculiarity is its "Soufrière," or volcanic mountain, celebrated for the violence of its eruption in 1812. This mountain is situated at the northern extremity of the island, and is about 3,000 feet above the level of the sea.

At the time of its discovery, Saint Vincent, like some of the other small islands, was inhabited by the Caribs, who continued in the undisputed possession of the island till 1627, when the King of England made a grant of it to the Earl of Carlisle. In 1660 it was declared neutral, and in 1672 it was granted to Lord Willoughby.

In spite of these grants no steps appear to have been taken to form a settlement on the island. In the meantime the English and French came to an agreement to abandon the Islands of Dominica and St. Vincent to the Caribs, on condition of their renouncing all claim to the other islands. After that, the Caribs continued sole masters of St. Vincent till the year 1675, when a number of savages of a different race were discovered on the island. These received the appellation of "Black Caribs," to distinguish them from the aborigines, to whom the name of "Yellow Caribs" was given.

In 1722 George I. made a grant to the Duke of Montague of some of the West India Islands, including St. Vincent.

The French endeavoured to extend their influence. They obtained reinforcements from France, and settlers thence and from the French colonies...
resorted to the island in great numbers. In 1740 the white inhabitants amounted to about 800, and the slaves to 3,000, producing commodities for exportation to the value of £63,625.

In 1748 St. Vincent was declared neutral by the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle. In 1756, however, hostilities were renewed, and the Island was taken in 1762 by General Monckton; and by the Treaty of Paris in the following year it was ceded to Great Britain, when General Melville was appointed Governor.

By a treaty, which was concluded in February, 1773, an extensive district of St. Vincent was allotted to the Caribs (who for some time had been in a state of open rebellion) on condition of their laying down their arms and acknowledging the King of Great Britain as the rightful sovereign of the island.

In 1779 the island authorities surrendered to the French. The following year has been rendered memorable by the occurrence of the greatest hurricane of which there is any record in West Indian annals. It took place on the 10th of October of that year, and extended its ravages chiefly to St. Vincent, Grenada, St. Lucia, and Martinique. The plantations were destroyed, the houses thrown down, and the loss of human life in the four islands has been computed at upwards of 20,000 souls. By the Treaty of Versailles in 1783 St. Vincent was restored to Great Britain.

From this period to the breaking out of the French revolution the island appears to have enjoyed comparative prosperity and peace; but the Caribs and their allies (the French) again overran the country, burning the cane-fields, plundering the houses, and mercilessly murdering the English colonists. This state of things continued till the arrival of the "Zebra" sloop of war, with succours from Martinique, then the British head-quarters.

The contest was now carried on, with alternations of good and ill fortune, till the arrival of Sir Ralph Abercrombie with reinforcements in June 1796. The success which had attended the British arms in the reduction of St. Lucia inspired the inhabitants of St. Vincent with hopes of a speedy deliverance, and they were not disappointed. After a series of conflicts the insurgents surrendered at discretion. The Government, in anticipation of such an event, had resolved that the Caribs should be transported to the island of Rattan, in the Bay of Honduras; and, accordingly, on the 11th March, 1797, the necessary transports having been provided, the Caribs, to the number of 5,080, were embarked at Bequia, and sailed for their appointed destination.

The planters who survived this protracted and desolating war found the Colony at its close in a sad state of destitution; and an application for relief to the Imperial Parliament by means of a loan, was favourably entertained. About this time Mr. Seaton resigned his post of Governor, and was succeeded by Mr. William Bentinck, who arrived in June 1802. The new Governor was authorized to grant occupancies of the Carib lands, during the King's pleasure, to all those who had been engaged in the late war; and this was followed in 1804 by an Act declaring that the Caribs had forfeited all claim to their lands under the treaty of 1773, and these were consequently vested in the Crown.

In 1809, Sir Charles Brisbane was appointed Governor of St. Vincent, in which post he continued till his death, in 1820. During his administration the Court-house and Protestant Church were erected, and an impetus given to agriculture and trade which soon raised the Colony to an unexampled degree of prosperity.

In 1834 the apprenticeship system was established, and was followed in 1838 by unconditional emancipation. The year 1846 witnessed the first introduction of Portuguese labourers, a class of immigrants who amounted in a few years to 2,400, and who have proved a valuable addition to the general population of the island. The arrival of a cargo of liberated Africans in 1849 was another accession.

St. Vincent received its first cargo of Coolie labourers in 1861.

The constitution of St. Vincent originally consisted of a Governor, Council, and Assembly, and was similar in all respects to that which was accorded to some of the other chartered colonies after the Peace of 1763. The Governor was appointed by His Majesty's Letters Patent, constituting him at the same time Chancellor and Ordinary. He was also Vice-Admiral under authority of the Lords of the Admiralty. His duties were regulated by Royal Instructions, modelled on those originally issued in the case of Jamaica. The constitution of the House of Assembly was founded on His Majesty's Proclamation of the 7th October, 1763, summoning the General Assemblies, and empowering them to enact laws similar, as far as practicable, to those of England. The same document authorized the erection of Courts of Judicature, with a right of appeal.

The Council consisted of twelve members, one half of whom were named in the Governor's Commission, and the remainder appointed on his recommendation. The Council acted in the double capacity of a Privy Council and a Legislative Council. The Governor presided in the former, and the senior member, with the title of President, in the latter, on whom also devolved the temporary administration of the Government, on the death or absence of the Governor. On the appointment of a Bishop in 1824, he was created a member of Council in all the islands within his diocese.

The Assembly was composed of nineteen members, including two for the Grenadines; and the elections took place under the authority of a writ issued by the Governor to the Provost-Marshal, on an application from the Speaker. The whole was regulated by an Act of the Legislature passed in 1786. The three branches were required to assimilate their proceedings, as far as possible, to those of Great Britain; their meetings were quarterly, and the Acts passed by them, after being proclaimed by the Marshal, were enrolled in the Secretary's Office.

The supreme court for civil causes was called the Court of King's Bench and Common Pleas, in which the Chief Justice presided. There were three Assistant Justices, who were not professional persons, and received no salary. The proceedings of this Court were regulated by a local Act. The Court of Sessions, for the trial of criminal offences, was held twice a year. The Chief Justice presided, and the members of Council and Judges sat according to seniority. The Court of Error, for appeals from the Court of King's Bench and Common Pleas, was composed of the Governor and Council. The Governor was sole Chancellor, and from his Court, as well as from the Court of Error, an appeal lay to the King in Council.

On the 30th November, 1843, an Act was passed raising the number of Representatives for the General Assembly to twenty-five, establishing an income qualification, and extending the franchise to incomes as well as properties. But by an Act
dated the 12th March, 1850, the number of Representatives was reduced to nineteen, as it originally stood.

The number of electors registering claims to vote at the general election in March, 1862, was 1,045, out of a population of 31,755. The largest number of electors in any division is 331, returning four members to the Assembly; the smallest number 65, returning two members; the constituencies cannot therefore be taken to represent the mass of the population, of whom they do not constitute 4 per cent. The franchise is regulated by an Act of the 7th August, 1854. The qualification for electors is a freehold of 10l. per annum for parishes and the Grenadines; for towns 20l. per annum; an income of 70l. per annum from business or profession; and for the town of Kingston a freehold estate of the value of 5l. per annum, or tenant of a house at a rent of 40l. per annum.

In 1854 the benefit of the Encumbered Estates Act was extended to St. Vincent, and in 1859 the Court of Appeal for the Windward Islands was duly inaugurated. The registration of all real property is required to be made in the office of the registrar, who is also Secretary of the Courts, and of the Council, Registrar in Chancery and in Ordinary, and Clerk of the Crown. The Provost-Marshal executes an office corresponding to that of Sheriff in England.

In 1856 an Executive Council was created, consisting of ten members, five from the Legislative Council, and five from the Assembly. In 1859 this Council was re-modelled, with the addition of an Administrative Committee, selected by the Governor, and composed of three members, one from the Legislative Council, and two from the Assembly. This Committee held office during pleasure. Their duties were to advise and assist the Governor in the administration of the finances, and of the general affairs of the colony; to act as a Board of Audit, and to have the charge of all Public Buildings; also to be the official organs of communication between the Governor and the Legislative chambers. This Act of 1859 had, however, a duration of only five years. On its expiring, in 1864, the Administrative Committee was not revived; but an Act was passed authorizing the continuance of the Executive Council as a Council of Advice to the Governor. This Council is composed of members from both branches of the Legislature, appointed by and removable at the pleasure of the Crown. From this Council the Governor may select, at pleasure, any two members, being members of the House of Assembly, to act as the official organs of communication between himself and the Assembly. The initiation of all money votes rests with these organs, under the direction of the Governor, without whose assent, signified through one of the organs, no money vote can be taken. A separate and distinct office of Auditor of Public Accounts was at the same time created.

List of Officers who have Administered the Government of St. Vincent since its Cession to Great Britain, in 1763.

Brigadier-General Robert Melville, Captain-General and Governor-in-Chief in and over the Southern Charibbee Islands of St. Vincent, Grenada, Dominica, and Tobago

Brigadier-General William Leyborne Leyborne, Governor, &c., as above.

From 1776 to 1833 St. Vincent was a separate Government under its own Governor.

Valentine Morris, Governor of St. Vincent and its dependencies

Edmund Lincoln (Governor)

James Seton (Governor)

William Bentinck (Governor)

Drewry Ottley (President)

Henry Wm. Bentinck (Governor)

Drewry Ottley (President)

Robert Paul (President)

Sir Geo. Beckwith, K.B. (Governor)

Robert Paul (President)

Sir Chas. Brisbane, Kt. (Governor)

Robert Paul (President)

Sir Chas. Brisbane, Kt. (Governor)

Robert Paul (President)

Sir Chas. Brisbane, K.C.B. (Governor)

Sir Wm. John Struth, Kt. (President)

Right Honourable Sir George Fitzgerald Hill, Bart. (Governor)

James Grant (President)

In 1833 St. Vincent was included with Barbados, Grenada, and Tobago, in one General Government, the Governor-in-Chief being resident at Barbados, with Lieut.-Governors in each of the other islands.

In 1838 St. Lucia was included in this general Government.

Major-General Sir Lionel Smith, K.C.B. (Governor-in-Chief, &c.)

Sir George Tyler Captain, R.N. (Lieut.-Governor)

Sir Evan J. Murray MacGregor, Bart. (Governor-in-Chief)

James Wm. Brown (President)

Sir Charles Edward Grey (Governor-in-Chief)

Colonel Sir Richard Doherty, Kt. (Lieut.-Governor)

Sir Wm. J. Struth, Kt. (President)

Sir John Campbell, Bart. (Lieut.-Governor)

Colonel William Reid, C.B. (Governor-in-Chief)

Sir William M. Bean G. Colebrooke (Governor-in-Chief)

Richard Graves MacDonald, C.B. (Lieut.-Governor)

William Laborde (President)

Edw. John Eyre (Lieut.-Governor)

Francis Hincks (Governor-in-Chief)

William Laborde (President)

James Walker (Administrator)

William Laborde (President)

Alexander McLeod (President)

Edw John Eyre (Lieut.-Governor)

Alexander McLeod (President)

Wm. Chas. Sargeaunt (Administrator)

Chas. Roger Nesbit (Administrator)

Anthony Musgrave (Administrator)

James Walker, C.B. (Governor-in-Chief)

Anthony Musgrave (Lieut.-Governor)

John James Hughes (President)

Anthony Musgrave (Lieut.-Governor)

John James Hughes (President)

George Berkeley (Lieut.-Governor)
Revenue and Expenditure.

| Year | Revenue | Expenditure |
|------|---------|-------------|
| 1859 | £19,911 | £23,825     |
| 1860 | £20,231 | £21,697     |
| 1861 | £20,851 | £20,711     |
| 1862 | £23,785 | £23,186     |
| 1863 | £19,388 | £21,112     |
| 1864 | £20,359 | £19,782     |
| 1865 | £19,000 | £18,441     |

Population, Census 1861.

| European | African | Asiatic | Caribs | Mixed |
|----------|--------|---------|-------|-------|
| 2,347    | 22,616 | 263     | 193   | 6,336 |

Total Value of Imports and Exports.

| Year | Imports | Exports |
|------|---------|---------|
| 1859 | £131,451 | £178,990 |
| 1860 | £150,343 | £172,265 |
| 1861 | £125,906 | £183,676 |
| 1862 | £140,289 | £143,326 |
| 1863 | £108,489 | £142,331 |
| 1864 | £136,148 | £156,413 |
| 1865 | £121,145 | £147,854 |

Executive Council.

Lieutenant-Governor, President.
John H. Hazell. John D'Oyly.
William Lynch. Allan Lewis.
James C. Choppin. E. J. Cloke
D. Cowie.

Clerk, The Colonial Secretary.

Legislative Council.

The Lord Bishop of Barbados.
Robert Aitkin. John Reily.
E. J. Cloke. James C. Choppin.
James M'C. Hagart, C.B.
The Rev. H. W. Laborde, Rural Dean.
Robert Sutherland.

Clerk, The Colonial Secretary.

Serjeant-at-Arms, The Provost-Marshal.
Chaplain to Legislature, The Assistant Curate of St. Andrew's.

House of Assembly.

John H. Hazell, Speaker.
Wm. Smith. David Cowie.
Jos. A. Waith. William Lynch.
John D'Oyly. Gerrit van Heyningen.
George H. Hawtayne. Robert Checkley.
H. P. Shearman. Francis Anderson.
Wm. Moss. Henry Creswell.
D. K. Porter. Allan Lewis.
P. C. Brewster. Wm. Cumming.
G. M. Browne. W. E. Hughes.

Clerk to Assembly, J. H. Brown, 166l.
Serjeant-at-Arms, J. H. Hazell, 60l.

Civil Establishment.

Lieutenant-Governor, George Berkeley, 1,300l.
Private Secretary, W. G. Lardner.
Colonial Secretary and Registrar-General of Births and Deaths—Edward Laborde, 400l.
Treasurer and Collector of Customs, Henry Shaw, 750l. and fees; provides his own Clerk.
Landing Waiter of Customs, O. Durrant, 100l. with one per cent. on Imports.
Clerk under Excise Laws, T. Le Gall, 150l.
Auditor of Accounts, E. H. Musson, 300l.
Postmaster, G. Van Heyningen, 150l.
Immigration Agent, James H. Brown, 100l. and fees, and 50l. for horse keep.
Inspector-General of Police, Charles Creagh, 300l. and house; also Adjutant-General of Militia and Volunteers' Colonel.

Judicial Establishment.

Chancellor, The Lieutenant-Governor.
Chief Justice and Vice-Chancellor (vacant).
Assistant Justices, Wm. E. Hughes, J. D'Oyly, and Richard A. St. Hill, no salaries.
Attorney-General, James C. Choppin, 400l.
Solicitor-General (vacant), nil.
Registrar of Deeds and Wills and Secretary of the Courts, Edward Laborde. Fees.
Deputy Registrar and Deputy Secretary, C. H. Gill.
Provoost-Marshal, H. H. Breen, 350l. and fees.
Police Magistrates, J. Reily, 440l. and fees.
J. V. Mc'Dowall, 200l. and fees.
George H. Hawtayne, 240l. and fees.
Allan Lewis, 240l. and fees.
Albert Lewis, 145l. and fees.
Stipendiary Magistrate (paid by Imperial Government), R. Sutherland, 300l. and 150l. for allowances.

Ecclesiastical Establishment.

Bishop, The Lord Bishop of Barbados.
Rural Dean and Rector of St. George's and St. Andrew's Parishes, Rev. H. W. Laborde, M.A., 466l.
Rector of Charlotte Parish, Rev. G. M. Frederick, 300l.
Rector of St. Patrick's and St. David's Parishes, Rev. Samuel Branch, 300l.
Rector of the Grenadines, Rev. John Connell, 300l.
Perpetual Curate of Calliaqua, Rev. E. Lisle Smith, 200l., and 50l. for horse keep.
Assistant Curate of St. Andrew's, Rev. C. L. Petersen, 150l., with 50l. for house rent.
Assistant Curate of Charlotte, Rev. W. Burgess, 150l., with 50l. for house rent.
Assistant Curate of St. David's, Rev. J. Matthews, 150l., with 50l. for house rent.
Master of Grammar School, Rev. L. A. Taitt.
Presbyterian Minister, Rev. D. McLean, 300l.

