BRUNEI

Situation and Area

Brunei is a State on the north-west of Borneo lying between latitude 4° 2' and 5° 3' north and longitude 114° 4' and 115° 22' east. It forms two enclaves into the territory of Sarawak, by which it is bounded on all sides, or perhaps it would be more correct to say, historically speaking, that an intrusion of Sarawak formed by the basin of the Limbang River splits the State into two separate parts. It comprises an area of some 2,226 square miles, and has a coast-line of about a hundred miles extending from Brunei Bay in the east to the boundary with Sarawak in the west.

Climate

The climate is of the tropical type and is characterised by uniform temperature, high humidity and copious rainfall. The heat is usually tempered by a slight breeze and the temperature rarely exceeds 90° F., the usual daily range being between 76° F. and 86° F.

The annual rainfall varies from 100 inches at the coast to over 200 inches in certain parts of the interior. There are no well defined seasons, but the rainfall tends to be heaviest from October to the middle of January during the period of the north-east monsoon.

General Description

The capital of the same name, or, to give it its honorific Arabic title, Darul Salam (Abode of Peace), is situated on the Brunei River about nine miles from its mouth and is distant by sea 758 nautical miles from Singapore.

At the time of the last census in 1931 it had a population of 10,453. Prior to 1910 the town consisted entirely of Malay houses built on nibong piles on mud flats in the river, but it has now spread over a portion of the mainland, partly reclaimed, on which Government offices and other public buildings and streets of shop-houses have been built.

Set in a wide sweep of the river, somewhat reminiscent of one of the smaller Italian lakes, this river town is in its way unique. At high tide under favourable conditions of light it takes on quite a remarkable beauty; reviewed at close quarters it is even more remarkably ramshackle. The houses are grouped together in small villages, many being connected by precarious bridges, and there the inhabitants carry on their multifarious activities in much the same way as if they were on land. Here, it is said, there are to be found still living old women who have never set foot on dry land.

The only other town of any size is Kuala Belait at the south-western end of the State's seaboard with a population of about 12,000. It is the centre of a rapidly expanding oil producing district and the local headquarters of the British Malayan Petroleum Company. Here, with municipal services, piped water supply, electric light, domestic gas, cold storage, cinema and other amenities, it is difficult to realise that within living memory it has been the scene of human sacrifices, and that only two hours up river there are pagan tribes treasuring the grisly relics of head-hunting expeditions of not so long ago.

History

The Sultanate of Brunei was formerly a great and powerful State, and in the early years of the sixteenth century the authority of its rulers appears to have extended, not only over the northern part of the island of Borneo, but over the Sulu Islands and some parts of the Philippines. Its wealth and importance at this period are shown by the description given by Pigafetta of the Sultan's court, and by the fact that the early European navigators extended the name of the Sultanate to the whole of the island, "Borneo" being a corruption of Brunei. The power of the State appears to have begun to decline about the end of the sixteenth century, and by the end of the nineteenth century it has fallen hopelessly into decay. The cession of the District of Sarawak to Sir James Brooke in 1841 was followed by many similar cessions to Sarawak and to the British North Borneo Company, and the State of Brunei has now been reduced to about 2,226 square miles, containing a population (1931 census) of 30,135, and consisting of the town and District of Brunei and some outlying districts, of which the most important are Belait, Tutong and Temburong.

In 1888 an agreement was concluded with the Sultan under which the control of foreign relations was placed in the hands of Her Majesty's Government, whilst internal affairs were left to the Sultan, and a further agreement was made at the end of 1905, under the terms of which a British Resident was appointed to advise and assist in the administration of the State. Until 1915 the Resident combined these duties with those of Resident of Labuan, while an Assistant Resident was stationed in Brunei. In 1915 a separate Resident was appointed for Brunei and the appointment of Assistant Resident discontinued. At the beginning of 1931, however, the rapid development of the Belait district owing to the discovery of oil in commercial quantities necessitated the appointment of an additional officer of the Malayan Civil Service and the title of Assistant Resident was revived.

Constitution

The supreme authority in the State is vested in the Sultan-in-Council. The Council at present consists of nine members, including the British Resident, with the Sultan as President. The assent of the Council is required for the enactment of legislation and all important questions of policy are referred to it.

Population

The total population of the State at the census of 1931 was 30,135 and the estimated population on 31st December, 1946, was 48,634. The enormous development which has taken place in the oilfield since 1931 accounts in great part for the large increase in the population of the State.
BRUNEI

ADMINISTRATION

The general functions of administration are carried out by a British Resident who is an officer of the Malayan Civil Service. By the Treaty of 1906 his advice must be asked and acted upon in all questions other than those affecting the Mohammedan religion. The seat of Government is in Brunei Town. The British Resident communicates direct with the Governor-General, Malaya, through the intermediary of the Secretary-General. At Kuala Belait, the second principal town, is the Assistant Resident's Office, which has control over the districts of Belait and Tutong. The Assistant Resident is also an officer of the Malayan Civil Service.

The State is divided into four administrative districts, namely Brunei and Muara, Temburong, Tutong and Belait, under the charge of Malay district officers who are responsible to the Resident. There are also state heads of the public works, medical, agriculture, forests, police, customs, posts and telegraphs and education departments. Seconded European officers from the Malayan professional and technical services are in charge of all the above departments except posts and telegraphs and education departments. The Assistant Resident is, however, responsible for the Education Department at present.

At Brunei, Tutong and Kuala Belait there are sanitary boards appointed by the Government, which are responsible for the sanitation, conservancy, street lighting, rating and municipal matters within the area appointed by the board.

RELIGION

The majority of the population is Muslim of the Shafei sect. The remainder consists of pagans, heathens and Christians.

CURRENCY AND BANKING

Malayan currency is the only legal tender. The standard coin is the Malayan silver dollar with a par of 2s. 4d., at which value it is linked to sterling. Subsidiary silver coins are those of value 50 cents, 20 cents, 10 cents and 5 cents. There are also nickel 5 cent coins and copper coins of 1 cent. Currency notes are issued in different denominations from 10 cents upwards.

Apart from the post office savings bank there are also two branches of the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation established in the State.

COMMUNICATION

The State is served by the ports of Brunei, Muara, Kuala Belait, Tutong and Bangar. Ships drawing up to 12 feet can navigate the Brunei River as far as Brunei town at any state of the tide. Vessels drawing 15 or 16 feet of water can go alongside the wharf at Muara where the former Brooke ton colliery was located. There are bars at the mouths of the Belait and Tutong Rivers, but small ships drawing up to eight feet can enter at high water and in calm weather only owing to the strength of the surf on the bars. Vessels of the same draft can navigate the Temburong River as far as Bangar at suitable tides.

Messrs. Harrisons & Crosfield (Borneo), Limited, maintain a somewhat irregular shipping service between Labuan and Brunei. There is also a weekly mail service between these ports run by the Brunei Government.

The main road runs from Brunei town to Tutong whence communication is maintained with Kuala Belait via the beach which forms an adequate highway for motor vehicles at suitable states of the tide. Total road mileage in the State is about 103 miles, of which 38 miles are in the oilfield area at Kuala Belait and Seria.

The Government maintains a central wireless station at Brunei town and a subsidiary station at Seria. Through the former station the State is linked up with the wireless station maintained by the Government telecommunications department at Singapore.

The Government maintains a telephone service with a 24-line switchboard in Brunei with extensions to neighbouring rubber estates and to Kuala Tutong and Kuala Belait.

There is a weekly air mail service to and from Singapore via Labuan carrying first class mail (letters and postcards). Printed matter and parcels are conveyed by surface transport between Singapore and Labuan on an average once in 14 days, operated by the Straits Steamship Company's vessels. Internal mails from one district to another are conveyed by motor launches and trucks.

SOCIAL SERVICES

Health

Medical and Health administration throughout the State is under the charge of an officer of the Malayan medical service with headquarters in Brunei town. In Brunei town there is a small hospital of 80 beds and an outpatient department. The Government also maintains four small dispensaries with accommodation for a few patients at Kuala Belait, Tutong, Muara and Temburong, each under the charge of a dresser.

At Kuala Belait there is a very well-equipped hospital, maintained by the British Malayan Petroleum Company, in charge of a medical officer. By arrangement with the company the medical services provided are made available to the Government on payment, and the medical officer carries out certain duties as health officer.

Education

The only schools maintained by the Government are Malay vernacular schools of which there are 22 in the State. It is provided free and by the Education Enactment all male Malaysian children between the ages of seven and fourteen are required to attend Malay vernacular schools providing a school is available within two miles of their houses. The number of boys attending vernacular schools is 1,283 and the number of girls 249.

The curriculum is based on that of the Malay vernacular schools in Malaya and includes reading and writing (in the Arabic and Romanized script), composition, arithmetic, geography, history, hygiene, drawing and physical training, as well as basketry and gardening at some schools. All instruction is in the Malay language.

In addition to vernacular education, religious instruction (Mohammedan) is given in some Malay vernacular schools. The classes are held on two afternoons a week.

There is no Government English school in the State, but there are three private English schools, one at Brunei, one at Kuala Belait and one at Seria, maintained by the Roman Catholic mission. There are also four Chinese vernacular schools in the State, maintained by the Chinese communities for the benefit of their children. In addition to education in Chinese, elementary education in English is given in the classes.
**Public Revenue and Expenditure**

| Year       | Revenue   | Expenditure |
|------------|-----------|-------------|
| 1936       | $928,690  | $779,521    |
| 1937       | $1,049,293| $653,150    |
| 1938       | $1,179,979| $1,476,725  |
| 1939       | $1,274,644| $1,181,325  |
| 1940       | $1,556,354| $1,462,174  |
| 1941       | $1,325,912| $1,137,219  |
| 1942       | Figures not available—period under Japanese occupation. |
| 1946 (second half of 1946) | $774,145 | $679,596 |

The State has no public debt.

**Import and Export**

|       |       |
|-------|-------|
| Import | $3,217,962 |
| Export | $894,446 |

**British Residents since 1906**

- **May 1906–May 1907**: M. S. H. McArthur.
- **Jan. 1908–Apr. 1908**: M. S. H. McArthur.
- **Apr. 1908–Sept. 1909**: J. F. Owen.
- **Sept. 1909–Nov. 1909**: B. O. Stoney.
- **Nov. 1909–Nov. 1913**: H. Chevallier.
- **Nov. 1913–Dec. 1914**: F. W. Douglas.
- **Jan. 1915–May 1916**: E. B. Maundrell.
- **May 1916–Mar. 1921**: G. E. Cator.
- **Mar. 1921–Mar. 1923**: L. A. Allen.
- **Mar. 1923–Feb. 1926**: E. E. F. Pretty.
- **Mar. 1926–Mar. 1927**: O. E. Venables.
- **Mar. 1927–May 1928**: E. E. F. Pretty.
- **May 1928–Dec. 1928**: P. A. B. McKerron.
- **Dec. 1928–Aug. 1929**: R. J. F. Curtis.
- **Aug. 1929–Sept. 1931**: P. A. B. McKerron.
- **Sept. 1931–Oct. 1934**: T. F. Carey.
- **Nov. 1934–Jan. 1937**: R. E. Turnbull.
- **Jan. 1937–Dec. 1939**: J. Graham Black.
- **Jan. 1940–Dec. 1941**: E. E. Pengilly.
- **July 1946–**: W. J. Peel.

**Members of State Council**

- His Highness the Sultan—Ahmed Tajudin, C.M.G. (President).
- British Resident—W. J. Peel, M.C.S.
- Duli Pengiran Bendahara—Pengiran Muda Omar Ali Saifuddin.
- Duli Pengiran Pemancha—Pengiran Haji Mohamed Yassin.
- Pengiran Shahbandar—Pengiran Anak Hashim.
- Chief Kathi—Pengiran Haji Mohamed Salleh.
- Pehin Orang Kaya di-Gadong—Awang Mohamed Yusoff.
- Pehin Dana Laila—Awang bin Haji Hanafi.
- Pehin Dato Shahbandar—Abang Seruji.

**Cyprus**

**Situation and Area**

The island of Cyprus is situated in the easternmost basin of the Mediterranean Sea, with Asia Minor to the north and Syria to the east, at distances of 60 and 41 miles respectively. It lies between 34° 33' and 35° 41' N. latitude, and between 32° 20' and 34° 35' E. longitude. Famagusta, with a harbour able to accommodate vessels up to 23 feet draught, is 295 miles from Egypt, while the port of Larnaca on the southern coast is 258 miles from Port Said, and 1,117 miles from Valetta in Malta.

Its area is 3,572 square miles, equal to Kent, Sussex and Surrey combined. It is the third largest island in the Mediterranean, being only exceeded in size by Sicily and Sardinia. Its greatest length from west-south-west to east-north-east, between Cape Drepano and Cape St. Andrea, is about 140 miles, and its greatest breadth from north to south is about 60 miles.

**Climate**

The mean temperature, as recorded in the screen, for the last 15 years is 66·6° F.; mean maximum, 78·6° F.; mean minimum, 54·5° F.; highest shade temperature during that time, 111° F.; lowest, 26° F.; average rainfall for last 10 years, 21·15 inches. The year 1946 had a rainfall of 17·91 inches. Figures for rainfall refer to the whole island. The rainy and cool season is from October to March. The climate is varied, hot and dry in the plains in summer, and damp on the seashore; the climate on the hills inland is bracing and healthy. In winter the temperature rarely falls below freezing point on the plains and is mild on the coast whilst the inland mountains are snow-covered for several weeks.

**General Description**

The main topographical features of the island are the northern and southern mountain chains, and the great plain of Mesaoria extending between them across the island from the Bay of Morphou to that of Famagusta. The northern range, called the Carpas Mountains, and, towards their western extremity, the Kyrenia Mountains, forms a continuous chain near the northern shore from Cape St. Andrea to Cape Kormakitii, a distance of about 100 miles. The southern range, which is the more extensive and lofty of the two, occupies the western and south-western portions of the island, and trending thence eastwards along the south coast, terminates in the isolated peak called Stavrovouni about 12 miles west of Larnaca. The highest summit of this range is Mount Troodos, 6,406 feet above the sea level, and on its south-eastern slopes are the summer quarters of the garrison, of the Governor, and some of the principal officials.

The rivers of Cyprus are nearly all mountain torrents, dry in summer. None are navigable. The principal are the Pedias and the Yalias.

The chief towns are Nicosia, the capital (population within municipal limits, 34,500, population including suburbs, 53,300); Limassol (22,700); Famagusta (15,900); Larnaca (14,700). The last three are ports, Limassol and Larnaca having open roadsteads. At Famagusta, on the east, the harbour and quay space have been considerably enlarged. The inner harbour is dredged over an area of approximately 1,800 feet by 700 feet, to 24 feet at low water (ordinary spring tides), with a channel of approach 250 feet wide.
and 26 feet deep. The curtain wall, south of Othello’s Tower, has been pierced with three arches, giving access from the town to the quay. The quay is faced with a concrete wall 1,770 feet long in 24 feet of water and has road and rail access. Further accommodation for sailing vessels and local craft has been provided by means of a steel jetty, 325 feet long by 20 feet wide, with a depth of 15 feet at low water. The port may be entered in safety both by night and day. The four towns mentioned are district towns of four of the six administrative districts into which the island is divided, the other two district towns being Ktima-Paphos (5,800) for Paphos District on the south-west, and Kyrenia (2,900) in the district of the same name on the north coast. An ancient harbour for local trade exists at Paphos, which has been dredged sufficiently to enable small vessels to enter and lie in safety. Kyrenia also possesses a small harbour which has some trade with the opposite coast of Karamania (Turkey).

**HISTORY AND ARCHAEOLOGY**

The history of Cyprus is too long and eventful to be related here except in the briefest outline. Recent excavations have carried knowledge of prehistoric Cyprus back to the Neolithic Age, when the island was already widely populated, and have shown that its mineral wealth was exploited from the Early Bronze Age, and that in the Second Millennium B.C. it must have been an important centre of Aegean civilisation. Greek and Phoenician colonies were established at an early date, and from the fusion of foreign and indigenous elements arose a series of quasi-independent kingdoms; these were the basis of the political life of the island under its successive rulers down to about 300 B.C. In the 6th century B.C. it passed under the rule of Egypt, but in 525 B.C. it joined Cambyses in his war against the Egyptians and so was absorbed in the Persian Empire. The whole island, with the exception of the Phoenician town of Amathus, took part in the Ionian revolt in 502 B.C., but the Persians recovered possession in about a year and at the battle of Salamis the fleet of Xerxes included 150 Cypriot ships. At the end of the 5th century the famous Evagoras of Salamis established his supremacy over the whole island and raised it for a brief period to a position of practical independence, but after his death it again came under the control of Persia. After the battle of the Issus, Cyprus hastened to join Alexander the Great and sent 120 ships to assist him in the siege of Tyre. At the division of Alexander’s empire, the possession of Cyprus was disputed by Syria and Egypt, but it eventually passed to the latter. In 58 B.C. it became a Roman province and was for a time joined to Cilicia, during which period it was administered by Cicero. Presented by Antony to Cleopatra, it reverted to Rome on her death, and remained a Roman province until the division of the empire, when it was assigned to the Eastern Emperor. Its proximity to Syria exposed it to the assaults of the Saracens, and it changed hands more than once between the 7th and 10th centuries A.D. It was finally recovered for Byzantium by Nicephorus Phocas in 965, and remained attached to the Eastern Empire until 1184. In that year its Governor, Isaac Comminus, revolted and declared himself Emperor of Cyprus. Isaac maintained his independence until 1191, when Cyprus was conquered by Richard I of England in revenge for the ill-treatment of the crews of some English ships which had been wrecked on the island. Richard sold the island first to the Order of the Temple and later, when the Templars found the task of government beyond their powers, to Guy de Lusignan, King of Jerusalem. Cyprus was ruled by the Lusignan dynasty from 1192 until 1489, but during that period the Genoese Republic exercised a suzerainty over part of the kingdom, from 1373 until 1464, by holding possession of the principal port of Famagusta. From 1489 until 1571 Cyprus belonged to the Republic of Venice. In the latter year the Turks conquered the island, and retained possession of it until its cession to England in 1878 for administrative purposes. On the outbreak of war with Turkey in 1914 the island was annexed to the British Crown by Order in Council of 5th November, 1914. By Article 20 of the Treaty of Peace with Turkey, signed at Lausanne on 24th July, 1923, Turkey recognised the annexation.

On 1st May, 1925, by Letters Patent passed under the Great Seal of the United Kingdom, the island was formally made a Colony and the High Commissioner assumed the title of Governor.

**Monuments and Museums**

Neolithic, Bronze Age, Phoenician, Hellenic and Roman antiquities have been found in immense quantities all over Cyprus, and scientific explorations on a large scale have been conducted in recent years by Swedish, French and American expeditions, and, on a smaller scale, by Government’s Antiquities Department. Notable excavated sites are the Neolithic settlement at Khirokitia, the 5th century B.C. Palace of Vouni and the Roman theatre of Soli. Although a variety of remains of different periods has thus been laid bare, many ancient sites, including the sites of Paphos, Salamis, Amathus and Soli await systematic excavations. Salamis possesses the remains of probably the largest market place ever built by the Romans, foreshadowing perhaps the “Emporium of the East” as Famagusta was commonly called in the Middle Ages. A Roman temple of large size at Nea-Paphos lies in ruins which have never been explored.

The Cyprus Museum at Nicosia, built as a memorial to Queen Victoria and much added to in recent years, contains a unique collection of Cypriot pottery, sculpture, gold and metal works of art, which was re-arranged during the years 1935–1937 in accordance with the most up-to-date methods of display. Separate smaller collections, of the mediaeval architectural fragments, which are always coming to light, have been formed, and district museums have been established in Larnaca, Famagusta and Paphos. Of the Greek Orthodox churches in use to-day, some may date from the Byzantine period and not a few retain their ancient paintings. Notable monuments of the Lusignan Kingdom are the castles of Kyrenia and St. Hilarion, while the superb Gothic cathedrals and churches of Nicosia and Famagusta, in their curious eastern surroundings, attract numerous visitors. These buildings, of the finest type of French mediaeval art, are singularly well preserved where they were converted into mosques; in other cases they are interesting ruins.

The Venetian and Genoese republics left few traces of their rule in the island beyond the imposing fortifications of the seaports of Famagusta, Kyrenia, Paphos and Limassol. The conservation of this fine series of monuments is now the care of the Antiquities Department which has already done much to make them secure and more attractive to visitors.
The number of ancient monuments in Cyprus now protected by the Antiquities Law of 1935 amounts to 228, of which 87 are Government property. At several of the most important monuments there are resident custodians, and entrance fees are charged to visitors from outside Cyprus.

**British Occupation**

On 4th June, 1878, a convention was signed at Constantinople between the representatives of Her Britannic Majesty and the Sultan of Turkey, by which England engaged to join the Sultan in defending his Asiatic possessions against Russia in certain contingencies, and the Sultan, "in order to enable England to make necessary provision for executing her engagements," consented "to assign the island of Cyprus, to be occupied and administered by England." On 1st July an annex to this convention was signed at Constantinople, in explanation of the conditions of the occupation.

On 14th August, 1878, a supplementary agreement was signed, giving to Her Britannic Majesty for the term of the occupation full powers for making laws and conventions for the government of the island in Her Majesty's name, and for the regulation of its commercial and consular relations and affairs, free from the Porte's control.

The island was annexed to and became part of His Majesty's dominions by an Order-in-Council of 5th November, 1914.

**CONSTITUTION**

Up to 12th November, 1931, the Government was regulated by Letters Patent, bearing date 10th March, 1925, providing for the administration of the Colony by a Governor aided by an Executive and a Legislative Council. The Legislature consisted of the Governor, nine official members and 15 elected members, three chosen by the Mohammedan and 12 by the non-Mohammedan voters. After the disturbances which occurred in the autumn of 1931 in various parts of the island those clauses of the Letters Patent, dated 10th March, 1925, which dealt with the constitution of the Legislative Council, were revoked by Letters Patent dated 12th November, 1931, power to legislate being vested in the Governor. There is an Executive Council consisting, at present, of the Governor, the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney-General, the Treasurer, together with two non-official members. Since October, 1933, an Advisory Council has also been in existence. The Council consists of members of the Executive Council together with other members selected annually from the unofficial community.

**POPULATION**

The population (including military, etc.) was returned as follows at the several censuses since the British occupation:

| Date       | Population |
|------------|------------|
| April, 1881 | 186,173    |
| April, 1891 | 209,960    |
| April, 1901 | 237,152    |
| April, 1911 | 274,108    |
| April, 1921 | 310,715    |
| April, 1931 | 347,959    |
| November, 1946 | 462,318 (provisional) |

The average density of population is thus 129·4 persons per square mile. The civilian population includes 361,373 Greek-Cypriots and 80,361 Turkish-Cypriots, the balance being composed of Armenians, Maronites, English and others.

**ADMINISTRATION**

The island, for administrative purposes, is divided into six districts, namely, Nicosia, Larnaca, Limassol, Famagusta, Paphos and Kyrenia. In each the Government is represented by a Commissioner. The Commissioner, Nicosia, however, usually administers the district of Kyrenia.

This division (which formed the basis of the original judicial system of the Colony under the Courts Order-in-Council of 1882, but was abandoned under the Order of 1927 in favour of three judicial divisions, each comprising two districts) was re-adopted by the new Courts Law, which came into operation on 1st January, 1936. By this law the courts were reorganised in the light of the experience afforded by the working of the system in force under the Order of 1927, and the reorganisation may be described as a blend of that system with the system obtaining under the Order of 1882.

The new law provides for:

(1) A Supreme Court, consisting of a Chief Justice and two or more Puisne Judges, with appellate jurisdiction, both civil and criminal, over the decisions of all other courts, and original jurisdiction as a Colonial Court of Admiralty under the Imperial Act of 1890 and in matrimonial causes, with powers in such causes similar to those of the High Court in England; when hearing appeals the court is constituted by three or two judges, as the Chief Justice may determine; but in criminal appeals leave to appeal is granted or refused absolutely by a single judge. A single judge exercises the original jurisdiction of the court. In civil matters where the amount or value in dispute is £300 or over, an appeal lies from the Supreme Court to His Majesty in Council. The Supreme Court may also in its discretion grant leave to appeal to His Majesty in Council from any other judgment which involves a question of great general or public importance.

(2) Six Assize Courts, one for each district, with unlimited criminal jurisdiction and power to order compensation up to £300. These courts are constituted by a Judge of the Supreme Court sitting with a President of a District Court and a District Judge or with two district judges. This bench of three is nominated by the Chief Justice whenever a sitting is to be held.

(3) Six District Courts, one for each district, consisting of a President and such District Judges and Magistrates (previously called Assistant District Judges) as the Chief Justice may from time to time direct. There are at present three presidents (each in charge of two district courts, namely, Nicosia and Kyrenia, Famagusta and Larnaca, and Limassol and Paphos, respectively), nine district judges and six magistrates. The district courts exercise original civil and criminal jurisdiction, the extent of which depends upon the bench constituting the court.

In civil matters (other than those within the original jurisdiction of the Supreme Court) a president and one or two district judges sitting together have unlimited jurisdiction; a president or a district judge sitting alone has jurisdiction up to £200 (which in the case of any President, sitting alone, the Governor may increase to £500), and a magistrate up to £25 (which the Governor may increase to £50). The
jurisdiction of a member of the court sitting alone to try an action on the merits is determined by the amount or value actually in dispute between the parties as disclosed at the settlement of issues or upon the pleadings. But any member of the court can in any action, even though beyond his power to try, settle issues, or make an order not disposing of the action on the merits, or give judgment when the defendant fails to appear or admits the claim. A president has also power to hear appeals from decisions of magistrates in actions where the amount in dispute does not exceed £25 (or £50 in case of a magistrate whose jurisdiction has been increased to this amount).

In criminal matters the jurisdiction of a district court is exercised by its members sitting singly, and is of a summary character. A president has power to try any offence punishable with imprisonment up to three years or with fine up to £100 or with both, and may order compensation up to £100; a district judge has power to try any offence punishable with imprisonment up to one year or with fine up to £100 or with both, and may order compensation up to £50; and a magistrate has power to try any offence punishable with imprisonment up to six months or with fine up to £25 or both, and may order compensation up to £25. Subject to these limits of punishment, which the members of the court cannot exceed, a president or a district judge may also try any offence punishable with imprisonment up to five years if the Attorney-General and the person accused consent; a district judge may (in prosecutions conducted by a law officer or a police officer, with his consent) also try certain offences punishable with imprisonment up to three years; and a magistrate may (with like consent in such prosecutions) try a few offences punishable up to three years. In addition, every member of a district court has power to hold a preliminary enquiry into an offence not summarily triable and commit the accused person for trial by an assize court.

The jurisdiction above described may be exercised over Cypriots and non-Cypriots, but the law expressly states that it does not confer any jurisdiction upon the courts it establishes to hear any matrimonial cause where either party is a member of the Greek-Orthodox Church and the marriage was celebrated in accordance with its rites, or where either party is a member of the Mussulman faith and the marriage was contracted in accordance with the Sheri Law, or to hear any other matter which, under the principles of the Ottoman Law previously in force in the colony was cognisable by an ecclesiastical tribunal, or which is within the jurisdiction of a Mussulman religion tribunal pursuant to any enactment in force for the time being.

The reconstituted courts are to apply the local laws and certain Ottoman legislation specified in the new Courts Law, the Common Law and the rules of equity in force in England on 5th November, 1914 (the date of the colony's annexation), in the absence of provision in the local laws, and any statutes of the Imperial Parliament applicable to the colonies in general or to Cyprus in particular save in so far as they may be validly modified or other provision made by local law. The family law of the various religious communities which had received legal recognition under Turkish rule is expressly saved. They are also to apply the English law and rules of evidence in force on the date of the annexation if there is no local provision in that respect. And their practice and procedure shall, in the absence of local provision, be that observed by the courts in England.

As above stated, the jurisdiction conferred by the 1927 Order-in-Council on the Mussulman religious tribunals it created, has been saved. There continue to be three such tribunals—one for Nicosia and Kyrenia, another for Famagusta and Larnaca and the third for Limassol and Paphos—and their jurisdiction is, as before, over persons of the Mussulman faith in matters of marriage, divorce, maintenance in relation thereto, inheritance and succession, wills and their registration, and the registration of vakfiyes. But the Sheri tribunal of appeal created by that order has been abolished by an amending law, which empowers the Supreme Court to hear appeals from those tribunals with, if it so wishes, the Fetva Emini (a Moslem religious dignitary) as assessor.

The strength of the police force is 37 officers and 978 men, while the prison service consists of one officer and 89 men. Both services consist of mixed Christians and Moslems.

There are 15 municipalities in Cyprus of which six are town and nine village municipalities.

Municipalities are constituted and their affairs administered under the Municipal Corporation Laws, 1930-1945.

Since 1933 municipal councils are elected bodies. All male persons who have attained the age of 21 and have been residents within the limits of a municipality for a year are qualified electors at a municipal election.

RELIGION

The major section of the civilian population (80·4 per cent.) are Christians of the Independent Church of Cyprus, speaking Greek as their mother-tongue. The Moslems (17·9 per cent.) are Ottoman Turks.

The Cypriot Church is a branch of and in communion with the Orthodox Eastern Church, but is "autocephalous" (i.e., the Archbishop of Cyprus is not subordinate to any Patriarch). This position of independence it has retained undisputed since the 5th century when the Emperor Zeno finally decided against the claims of the Patriarch of Antioch to exercise authority over it.

Christianity was originally introduced into the island by St. Paul and St. Barnabas, the latter of whom, a Cypriot Jew by birth, was martyred at Salamis.

CURRENCY AND BANKING

Under an Order-in-Council, which came into operation on 1st January, 1901, the following coins are legal tender currency:—gold, the sovereign; silver, 18, 9, 4½, 3 piastre pieces, limit of tender 540 piastres (nine equal to one shilling); bronze, 1 piastre, half-piastre, quarter-piastre, limit of tender 27 piastres (40 paras = 1 piastre).

By proclamation of 28th April, 1928, a silver 45-piastre is current and legal tender in the colony from that date. By proclamation dated 7th January, 1935, bronze coins, with the exception of the quarter-piastre piece, are in course of withdrawal from circulation and are being replaced by cupro-nickel coins of the same denominations.

By an Order-in-Council of 1st November, 1928, the Treasurer, as Commissioner of Currency, was authorised to issue currency notes of the Government, such notes being legal tender, and provision was made for the conversion of the notes into sterling and vice versa, and for the establishment of a Note Security Fund. Notes of the following denominations are in circulation:—£5, £1, 10s., 5s., 2s., 1s., and 3 piastres.
The main banking facilities of the island are provided by the following institutions:

- The Ottoman Bank, with branches at Nicosia, Larnaca, Limassol, Famagusta, Kyrenia, Paphos, Lefkara and Morphou, also at Troodos during the summer season.
- Barclays Bank (Dominion, Colonial, and Overseas), with branches at Nicosia, Limassol, Famagusta, and Larnaca.
- The Bank of Athens, with branches at Nicosia and Limassol.
- The Ionian Bank, Ltd., with branches at Nicosia, Larnaca, Limassol, Famagusta, Paphos, and a sub-office at Kyrenia.
- The Bank of Cyprus, Ltd., with head office at Nicosia, and branches at Larnaca, Famagusta, Paphos, and Limassol.
- The Turkish Bank of Nicosia, Ltd.; the Banque Populaire de Limassol, Ltd.; and the Banque Populaire de Paphos, Ltd.
- The Agricultural Bank of Cyprus, Ltd., and the Co-operative Central Bank, Ltd., specialise in agricultural advances through the medium of co-operative credit societies or direct to individuals.

Some Turkish weights and measures are in use. The oke = 2·8 lb. avoirdupois; the pic = 2 feet; and the donum = about one-third acre. A law relating to weights and measures was passed in 1890.

**Communications**

The Cyprus Government Railway of 2 feet 6 inches gauge extended originally from Famagusta harbour to the capital, Nicosia, and then to Morphou and up to the foot-hills of Troodos at Evrykhou.

Owing to uneconomic results the section from Kalokhorion to Evrykhou was taken up and the remaining section Nicosia to Kalokhorion closed to scheduled traffic.

There is no navigable waterway in the island. The main and secondary roads have recently been reconstructed and good roads exist between all important centres. Most villages are connected with these roads by cart roads passable by motor car at most times of the year. There are motor car services between the chief towns of each district. The Famagusta harbour was completed in 1906, and was enlarged in 1932-33 with assistance from the Colonial Development Fund. An extension to the pier at Larnaca with a sheltering arm at the sea end was completed in 1909. The ancient harbour at Paphos and the harbour at Kyrenia are of sufficient depth to admit of their use by the small coasting craft that trade between Egypt, Syria, Asia Minor and Cyprus. There are no Government telegraphs, other than those along the railway. Telecommunication services are conducted by Cable and Wireless, Limited, whose extensive telegraph and telephone network connects the towns and larger villages of the colony. The company's cables from Egypt and Palestine are landed at Larnaca whence the six principal towns are connected by landlines. During the summer season telegraph and telephone offices are open at Pedhoulas, Prodhiromos and Troodos. The company owns and operates the coast station and aeradio station at Larnaca for communication with ships and aircraft respectively. Emergency wireless communication with neighbouring countries is available should the cables become interrupted.

A regular 10-day mail service is maintained between Egypt, Palestine and Cyprus by a subsidised steamer of the Khedivial Main Line, S.A.E.; the Turkish State Lines maintain a monthly service between Turkey, Greece, Egypt, Palestine, Syria and Cyprus by two steamers, which also convey mails.

Mails are also received from and despatched to Greece by steamers of the Hellenic Mediterranean Lines Co., Ltd.

Cargo steamers of the Moss Line, Prince Line, Ellerman and Papayanni Lines, Westcott and Laurence Line and other "Conference" steamers called, usually at half-monthly intervals, at Cyprus ports, on itineraries in the Mediterranean. Most of these steamers have accommodation for a few passengers. Steamers of the American Export Lines, Inc., the Svenska Orient Linien, the Royal Netherlands Steamship Co. and other steamship companies call at varying intervals at Cyprus ports. Most of these steamers have also accommodation for a few passengers. Recently a ship under the control of the Sea Transport Board has afforded quick passages to and from British ports, and certain Greek and Panamanian steamers have greatly assisted passenger traffic between Cyprus, Egypt, Greece and other Mediterranean ports.

An air mail service is operated by subsidised aircraft of the Misr Airwork, S.A.E., as follows: Four times a week during the summer and three times a week during the winter between Cyprus and Egypt; twice a week between Cyprus and Palestine and once a week between Cyprus and the Lebanon.

An air mail service is also operated by B.O.A.C. aircraft twice a week between Cyprus and Turkey, and once a week between Cyprus and Greece.

Air mail correspondence and air letters for U.S.A. are forwarded to London for onward transmission. Air mail correspondence and air letters for countries other than those mentioned above are forwarded to Palestine and Egypt, as the case may be, for onward transmission.

Aeroplanes of the Middle East Airlines also land in Cyprus.

The rates of postage are as follows:

| Within the Colony | Letters |
|------------------|---------|
| Not exceeding 1 oz. | 1½ piastres |
| For every additional 1 oz. or fraction thereof | 1 piastre |

| Postcards |
|-----------|
| For a single postcard | ½ piastre |

| Printed Papers |
|---------------|
| For every 2 oz. or fraction thereof | 1 piastre |

For a single newspaper published locally and its supplement irrespective of weight | 2 piastres |

To the British Empire generally, Territories under British Mandate, Egypt and British Post Office in Morocco—

| Letters |
|--------|
| Not exceeding 1 oz. | 2 piastres |
| For every additional 1 oz. or fraction thereof | 1½ piastres |

| Postcards |
|----------|
| For a single postcard | 1½ piastres |

To other countries—

| Letters |
|--------|
| Not exceeding 1 oz. | 3 piastres |
| For every additional 1 oz. or fraction thereof | 2 piastres |

| Postcards |
|----------|
| For a single postcard | 2 piastres |

To any destination abroad—

| Printed Papers |
|---------------|
| For every 2 oz. or fraction thereof | 1 piastre |
The parcels post is established between Cyprus and the United Kingdom and the principal colonies and foreign countries, as well as within the colony.

Money orders and British postal orders are also issued and paid in the colony. "Cash on Delivery" parcels for delivery within the colony are accepted and delivered at the principal post offices. A reciprocal service of "Cash on Delivery" of parcels has been established between Cyprus and the United Kingdom, Egypt and the Sudan.

SOCIAL SERVICES

Health and Health Facilities

Cyprus is a healthy country. None of the dangerous infectious diseases exist, such as cholera, typhus and plague; the genuine tropical diseases usually reported are malaria, leishmaniasis, visceral and cutaneous, dengue, sandfly fever and dysentery. The figures of vital statistics returned for the year 1946 are as follows:

- Birth rate per 1,000 of population: 32.41
- Death rate per 1,000 of population: 8.49
- Infant mortality rate per 1,000 live births: 70.92

The island is divided into 22 district and rural medical stations each under a government medical officer. There are 20 government and rural hospitals with 422 beds (0.98 beds per 1,000 of population). The accommodation varies from three beds in small rural hospitals to 140 beds in the Nicosia General Hospital. There are also two sanatoria, one mental hospital, one leper farm, venereal disease clinics, dental clinics, ophthalmic clinics and child welfare centres.

Poor persons are entitled to seek medical advice and receive medicines provided they present a certificate of poverty; they are classified into three categories:

(i) those who pay nothing;
(ii) those who pay 2 p. per visit;
(iii) those who pay 6 p. per visit.

Government doctors make weekly visits to central villages where sub-dispensaries are held.

There is a health insurance scheme for regular government employees and their families.

Education

(a) Elementary

A general system of grants-in-aid of elementary schools was established in 1882, and further regulated by various laws up to 1929, when Government assumed the chief responsibility for elementary education. In 1933 the Governor became the central authority for all matters connected with elementary education, including the appointment and discipline of teachers and control of books and curriculum. Teachers' salaries and gratuities on retirement are paid by the Government, but the provision and maintenance of schools is met from local rates, with assistance from education funds under Government control.

There are separate schools for each religious community, i.e., Greek-Orthodox 80.4 per cent. of the population, Moslem 17.9 per cent., and smaller communities of Armenians, Maronites and Latin Catholics. For each community there is a Board of Education with advisory functions and control over the amounts to be raised by local rates.

Government elementary schools provide a six years' course from the age of six. Education is free and voluntary.

The following are the statistics of schools, teachers and pupils for the school year 1945–46:

Greek-Orthodox—schools 472 (boys' 12, girls' 12, mixed 448); pupils 46,150; teachers 1,034 (masters 706, mistresses 328).

Moslem—schools 206 (boys' 1, girls' 1, mixed 204); pupils 10,794; teachers 314 (masters 242, mistresses 72).

Others—schools 16 (boys' 1, girls' 2, mixed 13); pupils 1,592; teachers 65.

The total expenditure on education (primary and secondary) for the year 1946 was £479,790, of which £407,061 was from Colonial revenue.

There is also one English junior school under the British Council operating as a preparatory school for boys and girls of English parentage and English-speaking Cypriots.

(b) Secondary

Under the Secondary Education Laws, 1935 and 1936, all schools above the primary standard are required to be registered and open to inspection and all teachers in them are licensed. There are about 40 such schools. Various conditions, relating to management, finance, staff, curriculum and teaching conditions, are imposed on schools in receipt of grants from Government.

Among the most important schools are: for Moslems—a boys' Lycee and girls' High School in Nicosia, administered by a governing body constituted under the law, and supported by Government and Evcaf grants and by fees; for Greek-Orthodox—6 Gymnasiums (classical) (1 for boys, 1 for girls, 4 mixed) and 2 High Schools for girls in the towns, and a Commercial Lyceum at Larnaca, all managed by local committees appointed under the law; 6 high schools in the larger villages, managed by local elected committees; private commercial schools in Nicosia, Famagusta, Paphos and Limassol, and a commercial school with private endowments at Lemythou; Latin (Catholic)—a boys' school in Nicosia and convents in Nicosia, Larnaca and Limassol; undenominational—the English School, Nicosia, administered by a Board of Management on behalf of the Governor and now reorganised with a largely English staff; and the 2 American Academies (for boys and girls at Larnaca, for girls at Nicosia), managed by the Reformed Presbyterian Mission. The Armenian elementary schools have secondary classes attached to them.

There are also a number of small private schools in towns and villages. Many of the boys' schools admit girls also where there are too few girls to support a separate school.

The total enrolment in secondary schools is 9,743.

The British Council operates British Institutes at Nicosia, Larnaca, Famagusta, Limassol and Paphos.

(c) Training Colleges

Elementary schoolmasters receive their training at the Teachers' Training College, Morphou. It is situated on the grounds of the Agricultural Department's Central Experimental Farm at Morphou, and includes a practical and theoretical training in agriculture, suitable to rural conditions in Cyprus as part of a two-year course in education.

Elementary schoolmistresses receive their training in the Mistresses' Training Centre.
(d) Agricultural Education

A Rural Central School for training the sons of farmers in practical agriculture was established in Morphou in 1940.

(e) Juvenile Welfare Services

A Reform School for juvenile delinquents (boys) was established at Lapihos in 1943.

A Welfare Service, including a probation and after-care service, was introduced in 1945.

Labour Services

The Labour Department was created in 1941. In addition to the Commissioner of Labour its staff includes four Labour Inspectors and the Registrar of Trade Unions. The Department's activities comprise registration and inspection of factories and workshops, supervision of the employment of children and young persons, shop assistants and hotel employees and conciliation in labour disputes. The Department is also responsible for the collection of labour statistics and the compilation of a cost of living index. There are two Labour Exchanges, one in Nicosia and another in Limassol, for placing workpeople in employment. The Registrar of Trade Unions is responsible for the registration and control of Trade Unions of which there are 147 with a total membership of 13,608.

Public Revenue and Expenditure

The principal sources of revenue in Cyprus in 1946 were:

1. Import Duties.
2. Income Tax.
3. Excise on Tobacco, Spirits and Salt.
4. Immovable Property Tax.
5. Export Duties.
6. Stamp Duties.

All exemptions formerly enjoyed by foreigners have been abolished.

Grants-in-Aid have been received from the British Government annually since 1897 to relieve the revenue of the Island of the charge which is applied towards meeting the interest on the Ottoman loan, 1855. From 1911-12 the grant was fixed at £50,000 a year, and since 1928 it has been increased to the fixed rate of £92,800 a year. Additional grants in aid of expenses of administration were received as follows:—1942, £200,000, 1944, £500,000, and 1945, £260,000. A contribution of £10,000 a year has been made by the colony since 1928 towards the cost of Imperial Defence.

Public Debt on 31st December, 1946 (excluding Treasury Bills outstanding of £332,000) was £3,274,633, of this £1,967,107 was re-lent to H.M. Government. The Government's net loan liability in respect of loans raised for expenditure by the Colony was £1,302,816.

| Year | Customs Revenue | Income Tax Revenue | Excise Revenue |
|------|----------------|--------------------|---------------|
| 1942 | £363,451       | £150,486           | £236,948      |
| 1943 | £453,051       | £303,988           | £384,502      |
| 1944 | £609,376       | £542,415           | £460,475      |
| 1945 | £819,154       | £536,156           | £541,149      |
| 1946 | £1,759,358     | £488,722           | £494,961      |

Industry, Trade and Customs

Cyprus was in ancient times famous for its copper mines, and to-day the principal mineral product is cupreous pyrites, which is mined on a large scale by the Cyprus Mines Corporation in the Evrykhou valley and near Lefka, with a crushing and concentrating plant at Morphou Bay where steamers call and load the ore. Cupreous pyrites is also produced at other localities notably at Kalavasos in the south of the Island. Asbestos occurs on Mount Troodos where the Tunnel Asbestos Cement Company, Ltd., has established quarries and mills for the production of fibre which is transported by aerial ropeway to the port of Limassol for shipment. Chrome iron ore is mined at Troodos by the Cyprus Chrome Co., Ltd.; it is transported by aerial ropeway to a crushing and concentrating plant near Kakopetria, the metal being sent by road and rail to the port of Famagusta for shipment. Terra umbra (Turkey umber) is mined chiefly in the Larnaca district, and is carried by road to factories situated at Larnaca where burnt umber is prepared and exported. Gypsum, of which there are extensive beds in Cyprus, is quarried for local requirements, and there is a small export trade in both crude gypsum and plaster of paris.

The main industry of the island is agriculture, the products chiefly consisting of cereals, legumes, carobs, olives, wine, spirits, raisins, tobacco, cheese, potatoes, onions, citrus fruits, deciduous fruits, almonds, hazel and other nuts, flax, sumach, silk cocoons, cotton, cattle, pigs, mules, donkeys, sheep, poultry, eggs. Although agriculture on the island taken as a whole is very diversified it is not especially so as regards individual areas. The type of farming practised in a given area depends on the climatic conditions which range from temperate to semi-tropical and from a low rainfall of less than 12 inches to over 40 inches in some hill districts. The summer months April to October are more or less rainless and the choice and intensification of cropping on the main plains area are greatly restricted by the deficient rainfall and lack of irrigation water. The formation of a separate Water Supply and Irrigation Department in 1938 has greatly aided the development and use of free flow perennial and spring flowing waters, and has stimulated interest in pumped supplies.

FINANCES

| Year | Revenue | Expenditure |
|------|---------|-------------|
| 1936 | £826,075 | £761,965    |
| 1937 | £967,960 | £845,038    |
| 1938 | £1,023,230 | £908,024   |
| 1939 | £1,013,280 | £1,021,943 |
| 1940 | £951,485 | £1,145,882 |
| 1941 | £1,101,336 | £1,367,633 |
| 1942 | £1,559,031 | £1,751,184 |
| 1943 | £2,280,159 | £2,156,724 |
| 1944 | £2,989,554 | £3,693,688 |
| 1945 | £3,294,819 | £3,525,410 |
| 1946 | £4,517,132 | £4,001,978 |

* Excluding Grants-in-Aid; including assistance under Colonial Development and Welfare Act.

† Excluding Tribute Payments and share of Cyprus of the Turkish Debt Charge; including expenditure on schemes assisted under Colonial Development and Welfare Act.
Cyprus wines, which have been famous from early times, together with spirits and raisins, have found a ready market during the war years. The wine industry was formerly largely of a domestic nature but the installation of modern wineries and technique has resulted in uniform products. During the war years the quality of wines and spirits has somewhat deteriorated and efforts are now being made to establish war-time Middle East markets on a firm footing and to secure a larger market in the United Kingdom. It is hoped by legislation passed before the war to secure recognition of the good wines and spirits Cyprus can produce and to prevent the export of inferior wines. Prior to the war there was a steady expansion in the export of citrus fruits which, owing to their good quality, found ready sale in the United Kingdom and continental markets especially in Scandinavian countries. During the war export came to a standstill and many owners had to be assisted by loans to practise alternative cropping. Comparatively few groves have, however, been completely neglected and after the resumption of fairly large scale exports in recent seasons it is expected that groves will soon be brought back into good production. A scheme for the improvement of cotton growing is making good progress; the Cotton Law of 1937 gives the Department of Agriculture wide powers for controlling the industry. During war years a Government cotton spinning mill has been erected and is now in operation. The sericulture industry became of primary importance under war conditions, with the United Kingdom Ministry of Supply purchasing the whole production. A modern filature plant which had been closed down in pre-war days was again brought into full operation. But due to the existing overseas competition and especially the availability of accumulated stocks of silk in Japan, the export demand for local silk is on a very reduced scale. A proposal to establish a weaving factory at the filature, if it materialises, appears to offer the best hope of maintaining the expansion in the local industry brought about by the war-time demand. The production of silkworm eggs became also under war conditions an industry of considerable importance. Although the production of Turkish leaf tobacco has flourished during the war the industry is not yet on a sound footing and considerable improvement in the selection, grading, and processing of tobacco is necessary if good post-war export trade is to be maintained. An experienced Tobacco Officer is now attached to the Department of Agriculture and is engaged in trying to establish the local tobacco industry on a sound peace-time basis.

The improvement of agriculture is fostered by the Department of Agriculture, and technical assistance and advice is rendered by competent Crop and Livestock personnel and a field staff. The Department of Agriculture maintains a Stock Farm at Athalassa, a Crop Experimental Farm at Morphou, an Experimental Vineyard at Saitta, an Experimental Citrus Grove at Famagusta, Deciduous Fruit Stations at Trikoukia, Galata and Saitta, as well as nursery gardens and stud stables at selected centres. Six new nurseries for rearing olive stocks from seed are being established to cope with the demand occasioned by the dearth of wild stocks. Considerable attention has been given to animal husbandry, and Cyprus is famous for its donkeys and mules for which there is a good export demand. A Produce Inspection Service has been developed under an Agricultural Produce Export Law which has Regulations covering such exports as potatoes, onions, citrus, etc. A Research Officer is at present conducting a detailed ecological study of the local rat. Locust control has been vigorously prosecuted for many years with good success. Good progress is being made in establishing a worthwhile trade in vegetable seeds, especially of cauliflower, with United Kingdom seed importing firms. Damage to carob trees and in some areas to lemon trees by rats has been a problem for many years and efforts to control them by poisoning and the purchase of rat tails have only been attended with partial success. The system followed during the war years was the purchase of live locusts and the use of poisoned baits (which were toxic to livestock). Due to availability of new insecticides the purchase of live locusts was stopped as from 1946 and reliance is placed on insecticides which are non toxic to livestock.

The natural forests of Cyprus are typical Mediterranean type of mixed conifer and hardwood species. In former times the forests were very extensive and productive but the needs and habits of an increasing population have placed such pressure on the forests that they have been considerably denuded. The forests have been destroyed in the past by heavy demands for fuel and timber, by excessive goat grazing, disastrous forest fires and consequent soil erosion. The total area of the forests is about 622 square miles or just over 17 per cent. of the total land area of Cyprus. Of this total only about 20 per cent. is well stocked productive forest, the remainder is forest land from which the forest crop has been mostly cleared. In recent years much progress has been made in protecting and improving the forest areas. Goat grazing has to a large extent been removed from the most productive forests and very extensive reafforestation works have been applied to many of the wasted areas. A complete programme is now being applied for the gradual reclamation of all the deforested forest lands. This includes the eradication of all goat grazing, the conversion of all industry and commerce from wood fuel to oil fuel, and the reclamation of hill sides by anti-erosion and reafforestation works. Good progress has already been made over extensive areas and large areas of forest that have been cleared of goat grazing are now making good recovery by natural regeneration. In pre-war times the forests supplied about 40 per cent. of the timber and nearly all the fuel consumed in Cyprus. But owing to the heavy war fellings of timber and the excessive use of wood fuel during the war years, Cyprus must be largely dependent upon imported timber for some years to come and upon oil for its fuel.

The sponge fisheries in the territorial waters of Cyprus are supervised by the Comptroller of Customs and Excise, who is also the Government Inspector of Fisheries. The sponges obtained locally are of good quality and the fishing is mostly done by fishers from the Dodecanese Islands. Each sponge-boat fishing with the harpoon or by naked diving pays a licence fee of 10s. and gives up to the Government, as duty in kind, 20 per cent. of the catch. Machine boats pay a licence fee of £1 and 25 per cent. of the catch. Three machine-boat licences were issued in 1946 and one licence to fish with the harpoon or by naked divers. 1,690 okes of sponges were taken of which 422 okes were the Government share, most of which is sold by tender.

There is a fair amount of fish in Cyprus waters, and fishing has recently attracted private individuals and commercial concerns. 340 rowing
boats and nine trawlers (five Cypriot and four foreign), providing occupation for about 1,000 persons, caught 248,186 okes of fish, estimated at £68,770 value, during the year 1946.

The chief imports are beans and peas, cement, coffee, edible oils, fertilisers, fish, flour, iron, leather, machinery, motor-cars and chassis, petrol and petroleum, rice, sugar, textiles, timber and tobacco; the exports are chiefly animals, artificial teeth, carobs, cheese, citrus and other fruit, corn and grain, cuminseed, embroidery and needlework, onions, potatoes, raisins, tobacco, wines and spirits, wool and mining and quarry products, viz., asbestos, cupreous concentrates, pyrites, metallic residues and terra umbra.

The customs import duties are mostly on a specific basis. The ad valorem duties vary from 3 to 100 per cent.

A preference is granted to most classes of imports from Empire sources.

The following is the percentage of trade with the United Kingdom, other parts of the British Empire and the principal foreign countries:

| Year | From United Kingdom | From other British Countries | From Elsewhere | Total |
|------|---------------------|-------------------------------|---------------|-------|
| 1939 | 606,884             | 261,439                       | 1,013,056     | 1,881,379 |
| 1940 | 465,583             | 308,552                       | 892,903       | 1,667,038 |
| 1941 | 380,659             | 771,289                       | 833,955       | 1,985,903 |
| 1942 | 325,784             | 1,548,247                     | 380,714       | 2,254,745 |
| 1943 | 288,339             | 1,255,405                     | 703,504       | 2,247,248 |
| 1944 | 663,810             | 2,356,947                     | 1,784,046     | 4,804,803 |
| 1945 | 892,398             | 2,357,911                     | 2,079,951     | 5,330,260 |
| 1946 | 2,996,568           | 2,209,124                     | 2,926,139     | 8,131,831 |

Notes.—These values are exclusive of specie.

Figures for imports represent civil imports.

Further particulars will be found in the annual Imports and Exports Statistics and the Customs Green Book obtainable from the Government Printing Office, Nicosia.

ADMINISTRATORS

1878 Maj.-Gen. Sir Garnet (later Field Marshal Visct.) Wolsley, K.P., G.C.B., G.C.M.G.

1879 Colonel (later General Sir) Robert Biddulph G.C.B., G.C.M.G.

1886 Sir H. Bulwer, G.C.M.G.

1892 Sir W. J. Sendall, G.C.M.G.

1898 Sir W. F. Haynes-Smith, K.C.M.G.

HIGH COMMISSIONERS

1900 Sir W. F. Haynes-Smith, K.C.M.G.

1904 Sir C. A. King-Harman, K.C.M.G.

1911 Major Sir H. J. Goold-Adams, G.C.M.G., C.B.

1915 Major Sir J. E. Clauson, K.C.M.G., C.V.O., R.E.

1920 Sir Malcolm Stevenson, K.C.M.G.

GOVERNORS

1925 Sir Malcolm Stevenson, K.C.M.G.

1926 Colonel Sir Ronald Storrs, K.C.M.G., C.B.E.

1932 Sir Edward Stubbs, G.C.M.G.

1933 Sir Herbert Richmond Palmer, K.C.M.G., C.B.E.

1939 Sir William Denis Battershill, K.C.M.G.

1941 Sir Charles Campbell Woolley, O.B.E., M.C.

1947 Rt. Hon. Lord Winster.
EXECUTIVE COUNCIL

The Governor, President.
R. E. Turnbull, C.M.G., Colonial Secretary.
S. Pavlides, K.C., Attorney-General.
C. J. Thomas, Treasurer.
Additional Members—G. N. Chryssafinis, O.B.E.,
P. G. Pavlides.
Clerk—A. H. Dutton.

REPRESENTATIVES OF CHURCHES

Church of England—The Venerable The Archdeacon M. L. Maxwell.
Greek Orthodox Church—(Vacant), Archbishop of Cyprus.
Armenian Church—The Reverend Khoren Koouluqian, Pastor of the Armenian Church.
Latin Church—The Reverend Father President, Padre Stefano del Oyo.
Maronite Church—The Very Reverend John Foradaris, Vicar-General, Nicosia.

FOREIGN CONSULAR OFFICERS

Belgium—P. Lanitis, Limassol.
Denmark—D. N. Demetriou, O.B.E. (Honorary), Larnaca.
France—J. Lapierre (Consular Agent), Larnaca.
Greece—A. A. Coundouriotis, Nicosia.
Netherlands—P. N. Lanitis (Honorary), Limassol.
Norway—G. G. Pierides (Honorary), Larnaca.
Portugal—D. K. Vondiziano, Larnaca.
Sweden—Z. D. Pierides, Larnaca.
Switzerland—J. Shukuroglou (Consular Agent), Nicosia.
Turkey—Mehmed Ali Balin, Nicosia.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Cyprus under British Rule, by C. W. J. Orr. Robert Scott, 1918, 6s.
Cyprus under the Turks, by H. C. Luke. Milford, 1921, 8s. 6d.
Malta and Cyprus, by Gladys Peto. Dent, 1926, 5s.
Historic Cyprus: a Guide to its Towns and Villages, Monasteries and Castles, by Robert Gunnis. Methuen, 1936, 8s. 6d.
Across Cyprus, by Olive Murray Chapman. Lane, 1937, 15s.
A History of Cyprus, by Sir George Hill. C.U.P., 1940, 25s.
A Short History of Cyprus, by Philip Newman. Longmans Green & Co., 1940, 5s.
The Island of Cyprus, An Illustrated Guide and Handbook, compiled and edited by L. and H. A. Mangolan. Mangolan Bros., Nicosia, 1947, 12s. 6d.

