THE GOLD COAST

SITUATION AND AREA

The Gold Coast Colony, with Ashanti, the Northern Territories, and Togoland under United Kingdom trusteeship, is situated on the Gulf of Guinea, between 3° 15' W. longitude and 1° 12' E. longitude, and between latitude 4° 45' and 11° 10' N. It is bounded on the west by the French colony of the Ivory Coast, on the east by Togoland under French mandate, on the north by the French Soudan, and on the south by the Atlantic Ocean.

The area of the colony is 23,937 square miles, of Ashanti, 24,379, of the Northern Territories, 30,486, and of Togoland under British mandate, 13,041.

CLIMATE

The climate, although hot and damp, is cooler than that of most tropical countries situated in similar latitudes. The most adverse feature relative to the residence of Europeans is the very high relative humidity which only falls below 80 per cent. in the dry districts of the north and east and during the Harmattan. The average mean temperature is from 77°–84°, being greatest in the north and east and lowest in the forest area. Extremes of shade temperature have been 107° in Tamale and 45° at Kumasi.

The rainfall varies with the configuration of the country, being greatest in the south-western corner around Axim and least in the far north and coastal belt. There is the double wet season common to Tropical Africa corresponding to the double passage of the sun, the major rains in the south being in May and June and the lesser rains in September and October. In the northern territories intensity of the rains is reversed and in the extreme north the passages of the sun are so near to one another in date that there is only one wet season.

The most pronounced season is the Harmattan characterised by a dry north-east wind which blows from the Sahara carrying clouds of red dust during the period of cessation of the south-west monsoon. This occurs at the period when the sun is passing southwards to the spring solstice during January and February, and the feature is the terrific desiccation of the atmosphere. A drop of 63 per cent. of relative humidity has been experienced in 24 hours with a result that papers and books curl up and the skin appears parched and dry. The daily range of temperature is more than doubled and the period is very trying to Europeans. For the year 1946, the rainfall and the average figures for maximum shade temperature, mean daily temperature and mean R.H. at 9.0 a.m. are given in the table below:

| Station | Rainfall inches | Shade Max. Temp. °F. | Mean Temp °F. | Mean R.H. at 9 a.m. |
|---------|----------------|----------------------|---------------|--------------------|
| Accra   | 22.50          | 85.9                 | 79.4          | 79                 |
| Takoradi| 37.76          | 84.8                 | 78.4          | 83                 |
| Kumasi  | 36.79*         | 86.2                 | 77.9          | 87                 |
| Tamale  | 34.95          | 92.3                 | 82.4          | 67                 |

* Record for 11 months.

GOLD COAST COLONY

GENERAL DESCRIPTION

The Colony is inhabited by a large number of tribes, whose customs and forms of government are of a more or less similar character. It is divided into states (each with a paramount chief), several of which have formed confederacies, and the states and confederacies are administered by native authorities. Each province has a Provincial Council of Chiefs and there is also a Joint Provincial Council of Chiefs, with deliberative and advisory functions.
A number of different languages and dialects are spoken, the principal being Twi, Fanti, Ewe and Ga; but the use of English is widespread.

**History**

Little is known of the history of the people of the Gold Coast prior to the first recorded contact with Europeans, which took place towards the end of the 15th century, but tradition, borne out by the present language distribution, and by the absence of traces of large earlier settlements, is that the present population resulted from a series of waves of immigration in comparatively recent historical times.

Of these immigrants the most numerous were the Akans who, displaced by more warlike and better organised tribes, came from the north-west in search of sanctuary to the forests of the Gold Coast, some sections of them eventually reaching the sea. Their numbers being augmented by a succession of later waves, the Akans assimilated the aborigines and gradually occupied the greater part of the country. Behind the Akans came the Moshi who, partly by conquest and partly by peaceful penetration, obtained supremacy over the inhabitants of the northern portion of the Gold Coast and established the Mamprussi and Dagomba kingdoms under the rule of sons or other relatives of their leaders. At a later date the south-east corner of the colony was peopled by an infiltration of Ga, Adangbe and Ewe tribes from the east and north-east.

The first Europeans to reach the Gold Coast were the Portuguese who, arriving in 1471, built the castle at Elmina eleven years later in order to protect their trading interests. They found a people of hunters and fishermen, primitive in habits and development, yet understanding the working of iron and fully conscious of the value of gold. No native state of any size had yet been established, but numerous petty chiefdoms were in existence.

Until the close of the 16th century the Portuguese maintained their trading monopoly. Feeble efforts on the part of other European powers, including the English, were made to obtain a footing on the Coast, but the Portuguese were never seriously challenged until the advent of the Dutch in 1595.

At first the Portuguese were interested in obtaining gold, ivory and spices, but with the opening up of the New World there came a demand for cheap labour for the plantations. So commenced the transatlantic slave trade which, until its decline and abolition in the 19th century, shaped the history of the Gold Coast.

The main results of the slave trade were twofold. First, in order to feed the slaves awaiting shipment and their captors, the Portuguese were obliged to introduce food plants and to teach an improved method of agriculture to a people hitherto largely dependent for food on the natural resources of the forest and sea. Secondly, the lucrative nature of the trade attracted the attention of other European nations besides the Portuguese to the possibilities of the Gold Coast.

The Dutch, appearing on the Coast in 1595, rapidly undermined the domination of the Portuguese. In 1637 they captured Elmina and in 1642 the Portuguese abandoned all their possessions in the Gold Coast to the newcomers. Other European powers, including the English, followed and, fighting amongst themselves, scrambled for a footing on the Coast. By 1750, however, the year in which the African Company of Merchants was formed and subsidised by the British Government to the extent of £13,000 per annum, all had withdrawn except the Dutch with their headquarters at Elmina, the Danes with their headquarters at Christiansborg, and the English with their headquarters at Cape Coast Castle.

In 1821 the British Government first assumed the control of the British settlements in the Gold Coast, and the African Company of Merchants was dissolved, its possessions being vested in the Crown and placed under the government of Sierra Leone. Seven years later, however, the British Government, after considering complete withdrawal from the Coast, entrusted the government of the settlements in the Gold Coast to a Committee of London Merchants. In 1843, however, the 1821 arrangement was restored in consequence of suspected slave trading, which had been abolished by Great Britain in 1833. The year 1850 saw the separation of the British forts and settlements of the Gold Coast from Sierra Leone, the cession of the Danish possessions to Britain and the creation by Letters Patent of Executive and Legislative Councils, but in 1866 government from Sierra Leone was resumed.

In 1872 the Dutch withdrew from the Gold Coast, handing over their possessions to the British. Two years later, after Sir Garnet Wolseley's successful Ashanti campaign, came the final separation from Sierra Leone. A new charter was issued dated 24th July, 1874, separating Her Majesty's settlements on the Gold Coast and Lagos from the government of Sierra Leone and constituting them into one colony under the style of the Gold Coast Colony under a Governor-in-Chief with an administrator at Lagos.

In 1886 all the settlements and territories belonging to Her Majesty on the Gold Coast were, by Letters Patent dated 13th January, formed into a distinct colony, Lagos being separated therefrom. This territory, however, did not include all the areas under British protection and had no specified boundaries. To regularise the position, therefore, these protected areas were annexed to His Majesty's Dominions and declared to be part and parcel of His Majesty's Gold Coast Colony by Order-in-Council of 26th September, 1901. The boundaries of the colony thus constituted were defined by Order-in-Council dated 22nd October, 1906, and have since remained unchanged.

On 22nd June, 1939, the Gold Coast experienced a severe earthquake which did much damage to buildings, especially in Accra, and caused about 150 casualties, including 16 deaths.

**Administration**

The Colony is administered by a Chief Commissioner, with headquarters at Cape Coast, and, under him, provincial commissioners at Koforidua and Sekondi. There are 15 districts in charge of district commissioners:

- Accra (Accra); Akwapim-New Juaben (Koforidua); Volta River (Akuse); Keta; Ada; Akim Abuakwa (Kibi); Kwahu (Mpraeso); Ho (Ho, Togoland under British mandate); Cape Coast; Winneba; Saltpond; Western Akim (Oda); Ahanta-Nzima (Sekondi); Wasaw-Aowin (Tarkwa); and Sefwi (Wiaaso).
ASHANTI

Ashanti is inhabited by a large number of confederated tribes, the principal of which are the Mampongs, Juabens, Bekwais, Adansis, Kokofus, Nsutas, Öffinsus, Kumawus, Ejisus and Agonas. Each tribe has its own head chief, but from time immemorial the King of Kumasi was recognised as the King paramount of the Confederation.

In 1873 the King of Ashanti invaded the British Protectorate with a large army, and reached Elmina, where he was entirely defeated by the British forces under Colonel (afterwards Sir) Francis Festing. Later in the year Captain (afterwards Sir) John Glover was sent to the eastern districts of the Protectorate to organise the tribes in that quarter, for a flank movement against the Ashanti territory. At the same time Sir Garnet (afterwards Viscount) Wolseley was despatched to the Gold Coast, with British and West Indian troops, native levies, and some seamen and marines, to operate against the Ashantis, starting from Cape Coast. On 31st January, 1874, he came into general engagement with the enemy at Amoafu, where he drove them from their position after desperate resistance. The next four days were employed continuously in fighting, until, on the evening of 4th February, the British force entered Kumasi. The King had fled to the bush. A few days later Sir John Glover also reached Kumasi. On the 13th, messengers sent by the King concluded a peace with Sir Garnet Wolseley at Fomena, which was afterwards signed with a pencil cross by King Kofi. By the Treaty of Fomena, the King of Ashanti renounced all claims on the Protectorate, promised to protect traders, to abandon human sacrifices, and to pay an indemnity of 50,000 oz. of gold.

In 1894 Prempeh, who was then King of Kumasi, and had successfully fought against the Nkoranzas, who had revolted against his rule, threatened to attack the Atebubus. This attack was averted by the despatch of a force under Sir Francis Scott, and an ultimatum was then sent to Prempeh warning him not to enter British territory, and suggesting that he should acquiesce in the establishment of a Residency at Kumasi. No definite reply to this suggestion could be obtained, and a military expedition accordingly proceeded to Kumasi, to compel compliance with the demands of Her Majesty’s Government. The expedition, under the command of Sir Francis Scott, entered Kumasi without resistance, January, 1896. Prempeh made submission, but, failing to comply with the terms dictated, was brought to the coast as a political prisoner and lodged in Elmina Castle, whence he was eventually deported to the Seychelles. A Resident was at the same time installed at Kumasi, and thus commenced an entirely new departure in the relations of the Gold Coast Colony with Ashanti.

In 1900 the Governor visited Kumasi, and was there besieged by the Ashantis, the town being closely invested. Provisions ran short, and a part of the garrison, with the Governor, cut their way out; the rest were relieved by Colonel (afterwards Sir J.) Willcocks, commanding the Ashanti Field Force, on 15th July, after severe fighting. The Ashantis were subsequently thoroughly routed at Abuosu.

An Order of the King in Council, dated 26th September, 1901, defined the boundaries of Ashanti, annexed it to His Majesty’s dominions, and provided for its administration under the Governor of the Gold Coast. By a subsequent Order in Council of 22nd October, 1906, the boundaries between the Colony and Ashanti, and between Ashanti and the Northern Territories were re-adjusted and defined, with due regard to tribal lands and natural features.

Ashanti is administered by a Chief Commissioner, with an Assistant Chief Commissioner as relieving officer, and is divided into the following districts, each under a District Commissioner with limited powers of jurisdiction:

- Ashanti Akim.
- Bekwai.
- Kumasi.
- Mampong.
- Obuasi.
- Sunyani.
- Wenchi.

The jurisdiction of the Supreme Court was extended to Ashanti in 1935. The former circuit judge is now a Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court of which a divisional court has been established at Kumasi.

The peaceful relations which, under the auspices of the Gold Coast Government, have existed for many years now between the Ashantis and the neighbouring tribes were signified by not infrequent petitions emanating from the Gold Coast Colony as well as from Ashanti for the return from exile of Prempeh, the former Chief of Kumasi. The confidence felt by the Government of the Gold Coast in the loyalty of the Ashanti people led to the granting of this request in 1924, and to approval being given in 1926 of his election by his people as Omanhene or Head Chief of Kumasi.

Prempeh died on 12th May, 1931, and was succeeded by his nephew (now Sir) Osei Agyeman Prempeh II as Omanhene of Kumasi on 7th July, 1931, who, on the restoration of the Ashanti Confederacy in 1935, assumed the title of Asantehene.

THE NORTHERN TERRITORIES

In 1897 the territories to the north of Ashanti were constituted a separate district with the title of "The Northern Territories," and placed in charge of a Commissioner, and a grant-in-aid of the expenditure in the Northern Territories was voted by Parliament.

Major H. P. Northcott was appointed Commissioner and Commandant of these territories, with the rank of Lieutenant-Colonel. The negotiations between the British and French governments for the settlement of territorial questions in West Africa, which had been suspended in 1896, were resumed in October, 1897; and on 14th June, 1898, after a period of considerable tension in consequence of the proximity of the British and French forces in the disputed territories, a convention was signed at Paris with a proviso that it should be ratified within six (subsequently extended to twelve) months. By this convention the boundary between the Gold Coast and the French colony of the Ivory Coast, which had only been settled in 1889, as far as the 9th parallel of north latitude, was continued northwards along the course of the Black Volta River to the 11th parallel, and it was then drawn along the 11th parallel with a deflection to the north in the neighbourhood of Mamprusi, until it met the Franco-German boundary of 1897. The effect of the Anglo-French convention of 14th June, 1898, was to leave Bona, Lobi and Moshi to France, while Dagati, Wa, Mamprusi and the southern portion of Gronshi were included in the British sphere.
On 14th November, 1899, an agreement was concluded with Germany for the partition of the "neutral zone." This partition assigned Salaga to Great Britain and Yendi to Germany, and to the north of the zone gave Mamprusi to the former and Chakosi to the latter.

Survey operations were undertaken by Anglo-French and Anglo-German commissions during 1901-2 for the delimitation of those portions of the boundaries which had not yet been settled.

Provision was made for the administration of the Northern Territories under the Gold Coast Government by an Order of the King in Council of 26th September, 1901.

The Northern Territories are administered by a Chief Commissioner with an Assistant Chief Commissioner as relieving officer. They are divided into the Mamprusi, Wala, Lawra-Tumu, Krachi, Dagomba, Navrongo and Gonja districts, with headquarters at Gambaga, Wa, Lawra, Krachi, Yendi, Navrongo and Salaga.

The headquarters of the protectorate is at Tamale in the Dagomba district, 237 miles north of Kumasi. The Krachi district and portions of the Gonja and Dagomba districts, including Yendi, the Dagomba district headquarters, are within the northern section of Togoland under British mandate.

By Order-in-Council, of 22nd October, 1906, the boundaries between the Northern Territories and Ashanti were re-adjusted and defined.

An important step was taken with regard to the government of this protectorate by replacing, with effect from 1st January, 1907, the former semi-military administration by a staff of civil district and assistant district commissioners, and by establishing new stations. Simultaneously, the 2nd Battalion of the Gold Coast Regiment was disbanded and a force of armed constabulary substituted therefor. In 1929, the Northern Territories Constabulary was disbanded and their duties taken over by the Gold Coast Police.

The jurisdiction of the Supreme Court was extended to the Northern Territories in 1935. The former Circuit Judge, Ashanti, who exercised in the Northern Territories powers similar to those which he exercised in Ashanti, is now a Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court.

**GENERAL CONSTITUTION**

The constitutional instruments providing for the government of the Gold Coast are the Gold Coast Ordinances Order-in-Council dated 19th February, 1946, the Gold Coast Colony and Ashanti (Legislative Council) Order-in-Council dated 19th February, 1946, and the Letters Patent and Royal Instructions dated 7th March, 1946. The Executive Council consists of the Colonial Secretary, the Chief Commissioners of the Colony, Ashanti, and the Northern Territories, the Attorney-General, the Financial Secretary, and the Director of Medical Services (ex-officio members) and such other persons (appointed members) as may be appointed in terms of the Royal Instructions. The Legislative Council consists of a President (at present the Governor), six ex-officio members, 18 elected members (nine to be elected by the Joint Provincial Council of Chiefs, Colony; four to be elected by the Ashanti Confederacy Council; and five by the electorates of Accra (2), Cape Coast, Sekondi, and Kumasi), and six nominated members. The ex-officio members are the Colonial Secretary, Chief Commissioner of the Colony, Chief Commissioner of Ashanti, Chief Commissioner of the Northern Territories, the Attorney-General and the Financial Secretary.

**POPULATION**

The first attempt to take a census was made in 1891, which, however, covered the Colony only. Since then a census has been made at 10-year intervals, viz.:—1901, 1911, 1921 and 1931. Except in 1901 the whole of Ashanti and the Northern Territories have been included. In a country such as the Gold Coast, imperfect communications and lack of education make the holding of a complete census a matter of great difficulty and even now the figures cannot be considered absolutely accurate.

At the mid-year 1940 the population of the Gold Coast was estimated at 3,962,692, as follows:

|                | Resident Africans | Resident Non-Africans |
|----------------|-------------------|----------------------|
| Colony         | 1,940,789*        | 2,408*               |
| Ashanti        | 737,072           | 624                  |
| Northern Territories | 890,176       | 107                  |
| Togoland (under British mandate) | 391,473       | 43                   |
|                | 3,959,510         | 3,182                |

* Includes maritime population.

The estimated African population of some of the chief towns was as follows:

- Accra: 78,858
- Koforidua: 15,307
- Cape Coast: 20,242
- Sekondi: 23,847
- Tarkwa: 3,922
- Ho: 3,652
- Kumasi: 47,054
- Tamale: 21,303

**ADMINISTRATION**

**Municipal Government**

The towns of Accra, Cape Coast, Kumasi, and Sekondi-Takoradi have Town Councils with an unofficial majority.

**Law and Justice**

The Law of the Colony is the Common Law, the doctrines of equity, and the statutes of general application in force in England on 24th July, 1874, modified by a large number of local Ordinances passed since that date. The criminal law was codified in 1892, and the civil and criminal procedure are regulated by the Courts Ordinance and the Criminal Procedure Code, both enacted in 1935.

Justice is administered by the Supreme Court which is presided over by the Chief Justice and seven Puisne Judges. Divisional Courts of the Supreme Court are held in different parts of the colony. There are also a large number of inferior courts with limited criminal and civil jurisdiction, some of which are presided over by District Magistrates and District Commissioners. The Supreme Court has an original civil and criminal jurisdiction, and also decides appeals from the inferior courts. Appeals from the Divisional Courts lie to the West African Court of Appeal.
Native customary law is administered in all the courts, in so far as it is not incompatible, either directly or by necessary implication, with any ordinance for the time being in force, and not repugnant to natural justice, equity and good conscience.

Native courts are established throughout the Colony, with criminal and civil jurisdiction in cases where the parties are subject thereto.

Prisons

There are four central and 27 local prisons. Included in the central prisons is Ankafu Prison Camp for first offenders. A Borstal Institution was recently established outside Accra and the Young Offenders Detention Institution to be used as an Industrial Institution for young prisoners sentenced to imprisonment. A scheme of extra-mural labour is in operation at certain prisons. Full time certificated teachers are now employed at all central prisons.

RELIGION

The indigenous beliefs of the Akan peoples combine belief in a supreme God with beliefs in lesser gods, in the spirits of ancestors and in fetishes.

The first Christian missionaries landed in 1828 but it was not until 1838 that continuous mission work was established. The principal Christian missions in the Gold Coast are, in numerical order of their number of followers: the Methodist Missionary Society, the Roman Catholic Mission, the Presbyterian Church, the Roman Catholic Mission (Lower Volta), the Ewe Presbyterian Church, the White Fathers Mission (Roman Catholic, Northern Territories) and the English Church Mission. (See Gold Coast Handbook, 1937, page 25.)

The immigrant Hausa section of the population from the Northern Nigeria and many of the immigrants from the French Soudan are Mohammedans. Since 1873 Mohammedan missionaries have been active in the Gold Coast. In addition Islam has a considerable influence in the northern territories of the Gold Coast. A branch of the Ahmadiyya Movement was opened in 1921, with headquarters at Saltpond. There are numerous branches in the Colony, Ashanti and the Northern Territories.

CURRENCY AND BANKING

Prior to 1912 and 1913 the currency consisted chiefly of British gold (comparatively rare), silver and copper. In 1912, subsidiary nickel-bronze coins (1d., 4½d. and 1½d. pieces) were introduced, and in 1913 a special silver currency common to all the British West African colonies of the same weight and fineness as the corresponding British coins. The coins issued are 2s., 1s., 6d., and 3d. pieces. Owing to the great increase in the demand for currency and the difficulties in obtaining adequate supplies, it was found necessary in 1913 to make British treasury notes legal tender, and in 1916 special West African currency notes were introduced. 20s. and 10s. notes are the only values now in circulation, £5, 2s. and 1s. notes having been withdrawn. In 1920, owing to the rapid disappearance of silver coins, an alloy coinage was introduced of the same denominations as the silver coins; and silver has now practically been withdrawn from circulation. In 1939 an improved type of alloy coin of the 2s., 1s., and 6d. denominations and a new threepenny-piece of nickel-bronze were introduced. The special West Africa currency silver and alloy coins and the West African currency notes are under the management of the West African Currency Board and are secured by sterling securities held by the Board. Current British gold and silver coins, West Africa currency silver and alloy coins, West African currency notes, and West Africa nickel-bronze coins are all legal tender.

The Bank of British West Africa, Ltd., opened at Accra on 1st January, 1897, and now has branches at all the principal business centres in the colony.

The Colonial Bank, now Barclays Bank (Dominion, Colonial and Overseas), began business at Accra in 1917, and branches have now been opened at other centres. Both banks have a savings department. In 1888 a Government Savings Bank was established which is now under Post Office management. On 31st March, 1945, the amount to the credit of depositors was £1,541,976.

Accounts are kept in sterling.

COMMUNICATIONS

Mail and Steamship Services

Services between the United Kingdom and the Gold Coast are maintained by Messrs. Elder Dempster Lines, Limited, the United Africa Company, Limited, and John Holt and Company, Limited.

Aviation

The Gold Coast is connected with the United Kingdom on the B.O.A.C. trunk route between Great Britain and West Africa. It has direct connection with the United States of America and South Africa on the Pan-American World Airways system, and is also visited by Portuguese, French and Belgian Air Lines. The West African Airways Corporation operates a coastal service to Dakar, where the British South American Airways and other international air lines may be joined.

Accra is the West African terminus of the trunk air route operated by the British Overseas Airways Corporation between the United Kingdom and West Africa. It is an International Civil Customs Airport situated 4½ miles north-east of Accra. In addition to the B.O.A.C. and West African Airways Corporation’s services, it is used by the Pan-American World Airways service from New York to Johannesburg, and by the Portuguese air service between Lisbon and Laurencio Marques. French and Belgian air lines also call at Accra. There is accommodation for passengers at the West African Airways Corporation’s resthouse.

The second Customs airport in the Gold Coast is at Takoradi, where landing facilities are maintained at a high standard although the airfield is not so large as that at Accra. This is not an international airport and is now operated at a standard sufficient only for the needs of the internal air service.

Landing grounds exist at Kumasi and Tamale and these are being improved in view of the probable introduction of an internal air service in December, 1947. This service will operate between Accra, Takoradi, Kumasi and Tamale on a twice-weekly basis and will be managed by the West African Airways Corporation.

Harbours

The Gold Coast was for many years at a great disadvantage in that it possessed no deep-water harbour. Jetties protected by breakwaters were built at Sekondi and Accra, for the use of surf boats and lighters.
Sekondi has been replaced by a deep-water harbour a few miles to the westward at Takoradi, which was opened to shipping in 1928. The harbour is 220 acres in extent and provides moorings for eight ocean-going ships, whilst four can be berthed alongside the main wharf, which contains a large manganese-loading transporter, and also a bauxite loading plant. There is a fifth berth for local coal traffic.

**Internal Communications**

Railway communication consists of a main line running from Takoradi to Kumasi, thence to Accra, a distance of 366 miles, with branches, Sekondi to Takoradi Junction (3 miles), Tarkwa to Prestea (18 miles), Aboso to Cinnamom Bippo (4 miles), and Huni Valley to Kade (99 miles). The main line and branches are 3 feet 6 inches gauge.

The Railway and Takoradi Harbour are incorporated in one administration. The gross earnings of the administration for the year 1945/46 were £2,302,262.

The mileage of all-weather roads, exclusive of town roads, maintained by the Public Works Department, is 2,577½ miles, made up as follows:

| Tarred or Bitumen | Gravel | Total |
|-------------------|--------|-------|
| Surface Miles     | Miles  | Miles |
| Accra District    | 84     | 162   | 246   |
| Nsawam District   | 61     | 118   | 180   |
| Koforidua District| 82     | 99    | 182   |
| Keta District     | 13     | 50    | 52    |
| Winneba district  | 75     | 156   | 232   |
| Cape Coast District| 102   | 96    | 198   |
| Takoradi District | 34     | 183   | 218   |
| Dunkwa District   | 23     | 33    | 56    |
| Ashanti           | 155    | 472   | 627   |
| Northern Territories | 3    | 402   | 405   |

In addition, there are approximately 2,723½ miles of roads maintained by the Political Administration.

The Black Volta rises in the hills near Soukouraba, and the White Volta rises near Quahigouga, both in the French province of Haute Volta. These two rivers converge some 280 miles from the sea on the Ashanti-Northern Territories border and become the River Volta which flows into the sea at Ada. This river is navigable for light draught launches as far as Akuse, and, with the exception of the Krachi rapids, can be used for canoe traffic during certain seasons of the year as far as Yeji. The Ankobra River is navigable for many months of the year by surf-boats and light draught launches for a distance of 50 miles. The Tano, connected with Half Assini by the main lagoon, is navigable for light draught launches and canoes as far as Tanoso, a distance of about 60 miles.

Rapids at Sutri prevent this river being further utilised.

The ferry over the River Volta at Senchi is capable of taking the largest cars and lorries, and is now worked by an endless chain driven by a petrol motor placed on the ferry boat. A similar ferry is in operation over the same river at Yeji.

The Government maintains a motor transport service which handles Government cargo and officials' baggage and stores arriving by sea and arranges the coastwise shipping of Government personnel and stores between ports within the colony.

In addition to their departmental duties, the officers of the Transport Department assist in carrying out the provisions of the Motor Traffic Ordinance by acting as testing and certifying officers.

**Posts and Telegraphs**

Mails between the Gold Coast and other British Colonies on the west coast, and the United Kingdom, are exchanged frequently by vessels of Elder Dempster Lines, Limited, and at irregular intervals by vessels of other lines. Mails are exchanged overland with Nigeria, Togoland under French Mandate, and the French Ivory Coast. Air mails to and from all parts of the world are exchanged thrice weekly by British Overseas Airways Corporation. There is also a weekly service by French Air Lines to all French possessions in West Africa.

There are 87 post offices and 239 postal agencies. Distribution of mails is effected principally by rail and motor. When this is not possible a runner service is employed. The present rate for letters (1 oz.) within the Empire is 3½d., elsewhere 4½d.

There are 5,032 miles of telegraph line wire serving all the principal centres. The rate for telegrams is 9½d. for 12 words, and 1½d. per word in excess of 12. There are 18,718 miles of telephone wire including overhead and underground cable circuits in use which link up 194 exchanges and call offices throughout the country. Passenger or cargo boats entering Takoradi harbour can be connected to the colony telephone, telegraph and phonogram system. There are about 4,355 telephones in operation including those in Government offices, and extensions to the system are in progress.

Parcel post despatches are exchanged direct with the United Kingdom and with other British colonies in West Africa. Parcels for other countries are forwarded through the United Kingdom. The C.O.D. service from the United Kingdom is extensive.

British imperial postal orders are issued and paid, and an inland and foreign money order system is also in operation. A telegraph money order service with the United Kingdom is available.

The coastal radio telegraph station at Takoradi transmits radio telegrams at 11½d. per word.

Cable and Wireless, Limited, own and operate the cable station at Accra where submarine cables connect the colony with countries all over the world.

**Social Services**

**Medical Facilities**

Medical Officers are normally stationed at all the principal centres throughout the Gold Coast. Since 1940 staff shortage has considerably reduced the number of stations directly under medical supervision. All stations, however, are regularly visited and inspected. Most Medical Officers travel in their districts and give treatment at village dispensaries. The total number of dispensaries is 36.

There are 34 Government hospitals in the Gold Coast providing a total of 1,412 beds.

In 1946 a total of 38,182 in-patients were treated in the hospitals in the Gold Coast. Out-patients numbered 475,571.

The two largest hospitals in the Gold Coast are the Gold Coast Hospital at Accra and the Hospital
at Kumasi. In 1946 the Gold Coast Hospital treated 5,243 in-patients and 34,480 out-patients. 838 major operations were performed.

The Maternity Hospital, Accra, has been extended, and now contains 54 beds and 40 cots. During 1946, 833 deliveries were conducted in this hospital. This hospital is the training centre for midwives in the Gold Coast. Seventy pupil midwives and 14 second division nurses, who are being treated as midwives, are accommodated in the adjoining hostel. The demand for admission to the Midwives School is heavy and competition is very keen.

In 1945 the new Effia-Nkwanta Hospital, at Takoradi, built but not opened before the war, reverted from military to civil use. It was originally designed to accommodate some 80 beds. While in military occupation fairly extensive additions were made. This hospital should be ready for civil purposes in the near future.

An interesting experiment was commenced in 1945. A Nurses' Training School with a Hostel was opened in Kumasi. The object of the School is to turn out African female nurses capable of filling the higher nursing posts. The staff comprises three Sister Tutors, an English Mistress and three Science Mistresses. As far as can be judged at this stage the training scheme promises to be a success. It is intended to move the School into new quarters which are nearing completion in Accra. These new quarters will accommodate 120 pupil nurses.

The Medical Research Institute is situated near the Gold Coast Hospital, Accra. This Institute has to handle a very large volume of work, but staff shortage has necessitated its activities being confined mostly to routine examinations.

The Limb Fitting Centre was taken over from the Military Authorities in March, 1946. The scheme to train African limb makers has had to be abandoned, owing to the high cost, and arrangements are now being made with the Nigerian Government for prostheses to be made at the Limb Fitting Centre, Lagos.

Health

Shortage of staff makes it possible to post full time Medical Officers of Health only to Accra, Kumasi, Takoradi and Tamale. In other areas Medical Officers undertake all public health duties but only to the extent that their ordinary duties allow. Senior Sanitary Superintendents are posted to the large towns.

Public health activities are extended into the more rural areas as far as staff will permit, control being chiefly exercised in the larger villages and smaller towns on the more important trade routes. Particular attention is paid to village layouts and the type of house erected on them; to the protection of water supplies and the disposal of refuse and other essential factors. Particular success in rural sanitation has followed the activities of the Native Administration in the Northern Territories. Little progress, however, can be reported in Ashanti and Colony generally.

In 1946, in the registration areas of the Gold Coast with an estimated population of 355,780, out of a total estimated population for the whole of the Gold Coast of 3,962,692, the birth rate was 39·7 and the death rate 25·5 per 1,000 persons living.

The infantile mortality rate was 110, and the maternal mortality rate was 18 per 1,000 total births.

It cannot be said from the available figures that the health of the population resident in the registration areas showed any general decline in the last five years.

Infant and Ante-natal Welfare Centres in charge of Women Medical Officers are situated in Accra and Kumasi. The volume of work carried out at these and other centres is increasing steadily.

At Koforidua, Cape Coast and Sekondi, the Welfare Centres are operated by the Gold Coast Branch, British Red Cross Society, and are in charge of Nursing Sisters. In 1946, there were 168,903 child attendances and 72,912 attendances of expectant mothers at the Welfare Centres operated by Government, the Red Cross Society and the Missions.

Education

The system of education is, for the most part, under the management of Education Units, that is, denominational bodies, native authorities, and, in a few cases, private organisations. To these Units the Central Government makes annually, from its funds, substantial contributions towards the cost of conducting efficiently the "assisted" primary and secondary schools, and teacher-training colleges.

In the application of policy the Director of Education is advised by the Central Advisory Committee on Education which exercises purely advisory functions. With the District Education Committees this Committee is closely linked, and on it the principal agencies concerned in education are represented. From their special knowledge of local conditions and local needs the District Education Committees can be relied upon for advice as to the best possible action based on considerations of policy.

All teachers are registered and there is legislation for the registration of schools. There are also two Education Ordinances which provide for the separate control of education in the Colony and Ashanti and in the Northern Territories. These enactments contain a specific provision regarding the inspection of schools, and confer upon the Director of Education or his representative right of entry for this purpose. In the latter dependency education development is chiefly through native authorities, the Central Government training teachers and subsidising schools. In both dependencies grants from funds contributed by native authorities are proportioned to local needs.

Primary Education.—There are 20 Government primary schools and 578 Government-assisted schools. The enrolment of Government and grant-aided schools in 1946 was 87,531. Of these the girls totalled 23,440. As far as can be ascertained the enrolment, during the same period, of the many hundreds of non-assisted schools of all types was 88,288 boys and 22,592 girls.

Secondary Education.—There are the following Government-assisted secondary schools for boys: the Presbyterian Church School at Obumase in the Eastern Province, and Mfantsipim, Adisadel and St. Augustine's, situated at Cape Coast and conducted by the Methodist Church, the English Church Mission and the Roman Catholic Mission respectively. There are at Cape Coast two secondary schools for girls: Wesley Girls' High School and the Roman Catholic Mission Convent of the Holy Child. Other girls' secondary schools are conducted by the Order of the Holy Paraclete (English Church Mission) at the Convent of St. Monica, Mampong, Ashanti, and by the Scottish
Mission at Aburi. Achimota College includes a large co-educational secondary school. Plans for the extension of facilities for secondary school education are under consideration. Pupils of the secondary schools are presented annually for the School Certificate Examination of the University of Cambridge Local Examinations Syndicate. In December, 1946, 163 candidates from Government-assisted secondary institutions including Achimota College, passed the Examination.

Training of Teachers.—The principal teacher-training courses are (i) a four-year post-primary (or, alternatively, a two-year post-secondary) course for teachers who will be employed in the primary schools, including the senior primary departments of such schools; (ii) a two-year post-primary course for teachers for infant-junior schools only, which provide the first six years of the full ten-year primary course; (iii) special courses in arts and crafts, and in domestic science. There is a proposal to increase the number and variety of special courses.

Men teachers undergo the four-year post-primary or the two-year post-secondary course at Achimota College; Wesley College, Kumasi; the Presbyterian Training College, Akpong; and St. Augustine's Roman Catholic College, Cape Coast. Similar courses for women are provided at Achimota College; the Convent of the Order of the Holy Child (Roman Catholic Mission), Cape Coast; Wesley College, Kumasi; the Scottish Mission Training College, Aburi; the Order of the Holy Paraclete Convent of St. Monica, Mampong, Ashanti; and the Basel Mission Training College, Agogo, Ashanti.

The Certificate B two-year post-primary course is already provided at the following institutions:

- The Scottish Mission's Krobo College for women at Odumase, Eastern Province; The Ewe Presbyterian Church College for men at Amedzofe in the Southern Part of Togoland under British Mandate; The Seventh-Day Adventist Mission College for men at Bekwai, Ashanti; The Joint Methodist Church and Presbyterian Church of the Gold Coast College for men now in temporary quarters at Akpong, Akwapim (to be transferred to Mampong, Ashanti); The Roman Catholic Mission (S.V.D.) College for men, now in temporary quarters at Odumase, Krobo (to be transferred to new buildings near Odumase); The Roman Catholic Mission (Cape Coast) College for men, now in temporary quarters at Amisanu (to be transferred to new buildings at Apowa, near Sekondi); The Roman Catholic Mission (Trans Volta) College for men at Hohoe in the Southern Part of Togoland under British Mandate.

As part of the planned development of education, it is proposed to establish additional two-year colleges as follows:—A Joint Methodist Church and Presbyterian Church College for men at Oda, in the Eastern Province of the Colony; a Roman Catholic Mission (Ashanti) College for men at Bechem, in Ashanti. There have been approved substantial increases in the enrolment at each of the existing training colleges. All teacher-training colleges conducted by the Educational Units are grant-aided by the Central Government.

In accordance with the Central Government's scheme for the re-settlement of ex-servicemen in civilian employment 200 suitable candidates are to be selected for training as teachers in teacher-training colleges with a view to their subsequent employment in schools. Selected ex-servicemen, who now number more than 100, enjoy considerable benefits under the scheme both during their preliminary two-year teaching practice in schools and during the period of their college training.

Trade and Technical Education.—The Government Technical School at Takoradi and the three vocational senior primary Government middle boarding schools which were taken over by the military authorities for trade-training purposes during the war years have ceased to be so requisitioned, and arrangements have now been completed for the re-opening of the Government Technical School before the end of 1947. From that time on there will be a resumption of the interrupted secondary vocational courses (theoretical and practical) in building construction, carpentry and joinery, and in mechanical and electrical engineering. The school will, in addition, provide courses for apprentices in the railway department and for teachers of handicrafts in the primary schools. The former middle boarding schools have been converted into post-primary trade-training centres, and their first task is to provide supplementary courses for ex-servicemen tradesmen.

Schools for the training of subordinate technical staff are conducted by the medical, agricultural, animal health, survey, posts and telegraphs, and railway departments.

Achimota College.—The Prince of Wales College and School at Achimota near Accra was opened in January, 1927, as a co-educational boarding institution. It consists of a secondary school, a teacher-training college, and a post-secondary department in which students are prepared for the University of London Intermediate Arts and Science Examinations and the B.Sc. Engineering Examinations. Achimota College is an independent institution which receives a large annual subsidy from the Central Government and which, in accordance with its constitution, is administered by its own council consisting partly of elected and partly of nominated members.

Private Study for University Examinations.—Substantial numbers of candidates prepare themselves by private study for a wide variety of university examinations which are regularly conducted by the Education Department on behalf of the University of London and other United Kingdom authorities.

Scholarships.—The Central Government makes large provision for scholarships for secondary education and for teacher-training courses. There are, in addition, numerous scholarships schemes for university and comparable studies at Achimota and in the United Kingdom. The schemes provide for degree courses and for qualifications in medicine, dentistry, education, agriculture, linguistics, etc. There are approximately 193 Gold Coast students in the United Kingdom.

Labour

The Labour Department originated in 1938 with one officer stationed in Kumasi. The Headquarters are now in Accra and there are Labour Officers in Accra, Takoradi and Kumasi. The Senior staff consists of a Commissioner of Labour, an Assistant Commissioner of Labour, one Senior Labour Officer and seven Labour Officers, three of whom are Africans belonging to the Gold Coast. There are also three Labour Inspectors who assist the Labour Officers in inspecting places of employment and in guiding the Trade
Unions. In addition to its other duties the department is responsible for the resettlement of ex-servicemen and for this the Commissioner of Labour has an additional staff consisting of a Chief Resettlement Officer, four Resettlement Officers and 36 Resettlement Assistants stationed at 23 Resettlement Advice Centres throughout the country.

Two of the present staff of Labour Officers were selected for their experience of trade union-organisation in the United Kingdom and a vacancy exists for an additional officer with similar experience. It is part of the duties of the department to foster sound and progressive development of the trade union movement in the territory. At the close of 1946 there were 22 registered trade unions with an approximate total paid-up membership of 10,800. This compares with 13 registered unions with a membership of 6,000 at the end of 1945.

Social Welfare and Housing

A new Department of the Government, entitled the "Department of Social Welfare and Housing", was established in April, 1946.

There are five principal aims for the development of social welfare during the next few years:

1. To introduce modern methods for the treatment of juvenile delinquency, for the prevention of juvenile crime and for the welfare of the child in need of care or protection.

2. To establish a probation service.

3. To promote and encourage a youth organisation.

4. By a system of community and social centres to conduct a campaign against ignorance, illiteracy and low standards of living, and to foster a spirit of self-help and mutual assistance.

5. To assist and encourage the establishment of women's institutes, with hostel accommodation, in the large urban areas with the object of instilling in young women an increased appreciation of the dignity of womanhood and of a sense of community and citizenship.

As regards other aspects of social welfare, an experimental school has already been opened for the occupational training of blind children; and much progress has been made in after-care of convicts by a Discharged Prisoners' Aid Society working through full-time paid agents.

The duties of welfare officers are concerned not only with the execution of Government schemes but also with the co-ordination of public and voluntary enterprise.

Knowledge has been gained in recent years in the economics of housing for persons on small incomes and efforts have been and continue to be made to adopt construction methods which will reduce the cost of building and will enable local artisans to practise the new techniques in the villages.

Government housing estates have been developed in the large towns in order to counter the evils of overcrowding and to provide accommodation for persons on small incomes and the labouring classes. Rentals in these estates are subsidised by the Government.

TOGOLAND UNDER UNITED KINGDOM TRUSTEESHIP

The former German protectorate of Togoland is situated on the Gulf of Guinea, bounded on the east by Dahomey and on the west by the Gold Coast and its protectorates. The actual coastline lies between $1^\circ 45'$ and $1^\circ 14'$ W. longitude, the frontiers, however, especially on the west, opening out considerably. The total area is about 36,500 square miles.

Until 1884-85 the majority of the tribes along the littoral and its immediate hinterland, also those adjoining the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast, regarded themselves as being under the suzerainty of Great Britain, but by agreements made with the French on 24th December, 1885, and with the British on 14th and 28th July, 1886, when provisional frontiers were fixed, German influence was formally recognised by those powers. Subsequent agreements dated 23rd July, 1897, and 14th November, 1899, between Germany and the governments of France and Great Britain respectively, defined the northern frontiers of Togoland.

Immediately upon the outbreak of war between Great Britain and Germany Togoland was invaded by the Gold Coast forces. On 6th August, 1914, Captain E. B. Barker entered the capital, Lome, under a flag of truce and on the following day that town and the hinterland for a distance of 120 kilometres from the sea were surrendered. On 8th August Anecho (Petit Popo) was occupied by the French. Operations on a larger scale commenced on 11th August when Temporary Lieutenant-Colonel F. C. Bryant landed at Lome. After engagements at Agbelufoe and Chra River on 16th and 24th August respectively the enemy retired on the great wireless station at Kamina, which they destroyed. On 26th August the Acting-Governor surrendered the colony unconditionally.

Pourparlers then took place between Sir Hugh Clifford, Governor of the Gold Coast, and M. Noufflard, Governor of Dahomey, as the result of which an agreement, subsequently ratified by the governments concerned, was drawn up. Under this agreement Togoland was provisionally divided into British and French spheres. To the British were allotted the western administrative areas of Lome and Lomeland, Misahoe, Ketekrachi and Yendi, and to the French Anecho, Atakpame, Sokode and Sansanne Mangu.

By proclamation dated 30th September, 1914, civil courts were established under the presidency of political officers seconded from the Gold Coast, appeal lying from the district courts to that of a senior political officer. In the absence of a local criminal code, that of the Gold Coast was introduced as a basis of procedure.

In June, 1915, the office of senior political officer was merged in that of the senior military commander, without prejudice, however, to the civil nature of the court concerned.

Boundary adjustments with the French took place in 1920 in accordance with an agreement signed by Lord Milner and M. Simon on 10th July, 1919. Lome and the whole of the coast were given over to the French, and the British received additional territory in the interior. The area of the British sphere is 13,041 square miles.

In October, 1921, the Council of the League of Nations approved in principle the arrangements made between the British and French Governments for the division of Togoland in
accordance with the agreement of 10th July, 1919, and the application to the territories of the mandate system; and on 20th July, 1922, after a delay due to negotiations between the United States Government and the mandatory powers, the Council confirmed the mandates and defined their terms.

Togoland under United Kingdom trusteeship is now administered under the provisions of the British Sphere of Togoland Order-in-Council, 1923, which was issued on 11th October, 1923.

Under this instrument the British sphere is divided into the Northern Section and the Southern Section. The Northern Section is administered as if it formed part of the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast, and the Southern Section is administered as if it formed part of the Eastern Province of the Gold Coast Colony. The Chief Commissioner's Court of the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast exercises jurisdiction in the Northern Section; and the Supreme Court of the Gold Coast Colony exercises the jurisdiction in the Southern Section.

Subject to the terms of the Mandate, the law for the time being in force in the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast is the law in force in the Northern Section, and the law for the time being in force in the Gold Coast Colony is the law in force in the Southern Section. The Governor of the Gold Coast Colony is empowered to enact ordinances with respect to the British sphere as a whole, or with respect to either section thereof separately.

Togoland under United Kingdom trusteeship is not distinguished from the Gold Coast in the statistical returns. The towns of Ho and Kpandu are joined to the Gold Coast road system by a road which meets the Volta River at Senchi where there is a power ferry. There is also a direct road from Yendi to Tamale.

In January, 1946, H.M. Government announced to the first session of the General Assembly of the United Nations their intention of placing Togoland under the international trusteeship system established by the United Nations Charter.

### GOLD COAST STATISTICS

| Year | Revenue (£) | Expenditure (£) |
|------|-------------|-----------------|
| 1936-37 | 3,774,746 | 3,916,992 |
| 1937-38 | 3,791,673 | 3,636,569 |
| 1938-39 | 3,780,288 | 3,489,346 |
| 1939-40 | 3,734,438 | 3,631,154 |
| 1940-41 | 3,868,830 | 3,871,624 |
| 1941-42 | 4,141,186 | 3,598,777 |
| 1942-43 | 4,331,894 | 4,153,883 |
| 1943-44 | 4,720,394 | 4,560,274 |
| 1944-45 | 5,866,665 | 4,534,612 |
| 1945-46 | 7,171,618 | 6,039,855 |
| 1946-47 | 7,567,589 | 7,192,344 |

| Year | British Tonnage | Total Tonnage |
|------|-----------------|---------------|
| 1937 | 2,923,375 | 5,223,665 |
| 1938 | 2,681,484 | 4,816,667 |
| 1939 | 2,547,933 | 4,334,463 |
| 1940 | 2,392,483 | 3,565,202 |
| 1941 | 2,086,426 | 3,145,018 |
| 1942 | 2,396,447 | 3,659,757 |
| 1943 | 2,496,073 | 3,750,685 |
| 1944 | 1,837,987 | 3,106,584 |
| 1945 | 2,325,714 | 3,888,784 |
| 1946 | 3,649,871 | 5,126,900 |

### INDUSTRIES, TRADE AND CUSTOMS

Quantities and values of the following exports for 1946 were:

| Unit | Quantity | Value (£) |
|------|----------|-----------|
| Cocoa | ton | 236,316 | 9,488,316 |
| Gold | fine oz. | 646,559 | 5,568,486 |
| Manganese ore | dry ton | 765,300 | 2,264,715 |
| Bauxite | ton | 114,246 | 365,587 |
| Diamonds | carats | 809,001 | 622,525 |
| Timber—unmanufactured | cubic ft. | 4,310,272 | 942,115 |
| Palm kernels | ton | 5,953 | 74,048 |
| Rubber, raw | lb. | 2,325,995 | 106,340 |
| Copra | ton | 397 | 6,175 |

| Unit | Quantity | Value (£) |
|------|----------|-----------|
| Lime products: |
| Lime juice | gal. | 418,177 | 46,341 |
| Lime oil | gal. | 720 | 7,134 |
| Lime fruits, fresh | cwt. | 8,861 | 12,580 |

*Kola nuts, cental of 100 lb. 140,086 130,528

The value of the import trade, sea-borne and overland, in 1946 (exclusive of specie and currency notes) was £12,861,143, the principal imports being tobacco (all kinds), coal, cotton piece goods, artificial silks, provisions, machinery, iron and steel manufactures, motor vehicles, tyres, cement, medicines and drugs, and fuel oil and motor spirit.

* Inclusive of 121,441 centsals of 100 lb. of kola nuts, valued at £112,471, exported overland from the Northern Territories (including the Northern Section of Togoland under British Mandate).
### Distribution of Sea-borne Trade in 1946

#### Imports

| Countries                  | Value   | Per cent |
|----------------------------|---------|----------|
| **British Empire**         |         |          |
| United Kingdom             | 8,423,087 | 66·67    |
| Australia                  | 2,156   | ·02      |
| British East Africa        | 6,193   | ·05      |
| British India              | 572,889 | 4·53     |
| British West Africa        | 464,375 | 3·68     |
| Canada                     | 233,884 | 1·85     |
| South Africa (including South-West Africa) | 178,091 | 1·41     |
| Southern Rhodesia           | 13,171  | ·10      |
| Other parts of the British Empire | 21,573  | ·17      |
| **Total British Empire**   | 9,915,419 | 78·48    |

#### Exports

| Countries                  | Value   | Per cent |
|----------------------------|---------|----------|
| **British Empire**         |         |          |
| United Kingdom             | 10,483,391 | 53·44   |
| Australia                  | 401,709 | 2·05     |
| British East Africa        | 63      | —        |
| British India              | 20      | —        |
| British West Africa        | 163,322 | ·83      |
| Canada                     | 825,622 | 4·21     |
| New Zealand                | 39,940  | ·21      |
| South Africa (including South-West Africa) | 141,864 | ·72      |
| Other parts of the British Empire | 8,242   | ·04      |
| **Total British Empire**   | 12,064,173 | 61·50   |

| **Foreign Countries**       |         |          |
| Belgian Congo               | 614     | —        |
| Belgium                    | 178,427 | ·91      |
| Czechoslovakia             | 3,231   | ·02      |
| France                     | 60,775  | ·31      |
| Netherlands                | 653,431 | 3·33     |
| Norway                     | 136,937 | ·70      |
| Poland                     | 60,750  | ·31      |
| Soviet Union               | 394,149 | 2·01     |
| Sweden                     | 118,625 | ·60      |
| Switzerland                | 4,730   | ·02      |
| United States of America   | 5,619,740 | 28·65   |
| Other foreign countries    | 321,292 | 1·64     |
| **Total foreign countries**| 7,552,701 | 38·50   |

**Grand Total** | 19,616,874 | — |

The Customs Tariff is non-preferential.

The principal cotton manufactures, artificial silk, alcoholic liquors, tobacco, timber, certain articles of apparel, soap, petrol and kerosene, and a number of other articles are liable to specific duties.

The following articles, namely, cardigans, shirts, singlets, socks, confectionery, umbrellas and perfumed spirits are liable to alternative specific or ad valorem rates of duty, whichever is the higher.

All other articles, unless specifically exempted, are liable to an ad valorem duty of 15 per cent., except glass and glassware which is dutiable at 10 per cent., newsprint at 7½ per cent., and perfumery at 33½ per cent.

---

*Imports*

| Year | From U.K. | From Other British Countries | From Elsewhere | Total |
|------|-----------|------------------------------|----------------|-------|
| 1935 | 4,533,683 | 527,905                      | 2,895,192      | 7,956,780 |
| 1936 | 7,499,788 | 527,301                      | 3,629,630      | 11,656,719 |
| 1937 | 12,593,772| 783,200                      | 5,851,391      | 19,228,363 |
| 1938 | 6,648,796 | 523,802                      | 3,207,725      | 10,380,323 |
| 1939 | 7,199,842 | 506,466                      | 2,919,976      | 10,626,284 |
| 1940 | 4,640,607 | 867,938                      | 2,122,738      | 7,631,283 |
| 1941 | 3,739,084 | 1,014,633                     | 1,514,889      | 6,268,606 |
| 1942 | 5,787,290 | 1,836,945                     | 2,253,063      | 9,877,298 |
| 1943 | 6,391,034 | 1,364,326                     | 2,412,206      | 10,167,566 |
| 1944 | 5,841,938 | 1,418,808                     | 2,567,348      | 9,828,094 |
| 1945 | 5,867,597 | 1,270,865                     | 2,965,478      | 10,103,940 |
| 1946 | 8,423,087 | 1,492,332                     | 2,718,193      | 12,633,612 |

* These figures refer to calendar years.
### GOLD COAST

**Exports (including Re-exports)**

| Year | To U.K. | To Other British Countries | To Elsewhere | Total |
|------|---------|----------------------------|--------------|-------|
| 1935 | £5,670,398 | £268,339 | £4,032,798 | £9,971,535 |
| 1936 | £6,058,958 | £365,136 | £6,212,805 | £12,636,899 |
| 1937 | £7,669,341 | £513,870 | £8,034,982 | £16,218,193 |
| 1938 | £11,558,859 | £307,161 | £3,559,476 | £15,425,496 |
| 1939 | £12,320,235 | £351,902 | £3,563,151 | £16,235,288 |
| 1940 | £6,450,817 | £4,209,188 | £3,663,837 | £14,323,842 |
| 1941 | £4,297,377 | £7,264,613 | £1,986,419 | £13,548,409 |
| 1942 | £9,963,505 | £1,361,633 | £1,225,036 | £12,550,174 |
| 1943 | £9,738,101 | £688,613 | £2,204,568 | £12,631,282 |
| 1944 | £7,884,109 | £684,010 | £3,746,081 | £12,314,200 |
| 1945 | £7,970,050 | £1,209,838 | £5,946,259 | £15,126,147 |
| 1946 | £10,483,391 | £1,580,782 | £7,552,701 | £19,616,874 |

* These figures refer to calendar years.

**Customs Receipts**

| Year | Amount |
|------|--------|
| 1942 | £2,674,597 |
| 1943 | £2,903,417 |
| 1944 | £2,780,041 |

**Governors of the Gold Coast**

- **1874**: Captain George Cumine Strahan, R.A.
- **1876**: Captain C. C. Lees, C.M.G. (*Lieut.-Gov.*)
- **1876**: Sanford Freelings, Esq., C.M.G.
- **1878**: Captain C. C. Lees, C.M.G. (*Lieut.-Gov.*)
- **1879**: Herbert Taylor Ussher, Esq., C.M.G.
- **1880**: W. Brandsford Griffith, Esq., C.M.G. (*Lieut.-Gov.*)
- **1881**: Sir Samuel Rowe, K.C.M.G.
- **1882**: Captain C. A. Moloney, C.M.G. (*Admr.*)
- **1882**: W. Brandsford Griffith, Esq., C.M.G. (*Lieut.-Gov.*)
- **1882**: Sir Samuel Rowe, K.C.M.G.
- **1884**: William A. G. Young, Esq., C.M.G.
- **1885**: W. (now Sir W. B.) Griffith, K.C.M.G.
- **1900**: Sir Matthew Nathan, K.C.M.G.
- **1904**: Sir John P. Rodger, K.C.M.G.
- **1910**: J. J. Thorburn, C.M.G.
- **1912**: Sir Hugh C. Clifford, K.C.M.G.
- **1919**: Brig.-Gen. Sir F. Gordon Guggisberg, K.C.M.G., D.S.O., R.E.
- **1927**: Sir Alexander Ransford Slater, K.C.M.G., C.B.E.
- **1932**: Sir Thomas Shenton W. Thomas, K.C.M.G., O.B.E.
- **1934**: Sir A. W. Hodson, K.C.M.G.
- **1941**: Sir A. C. M. Burns, K.C.M.G. (later G.C.M.G.)
- **1948**: Sir Gerald H. Creasy, K.C.M.G., O.B.E.

**Executive Council**

The Governor (*President*).
The Colonial Secretary.
The Chief Commissioner of Ashanti.
The Chief Commissioner of the Northern Territories.
The Chief Commissioner of the Colony.
The Attorney-General.
The Financial Secretary.
The Director of Medical Services.
Nana Tsibie Darku IX, O.B.E.
Charles William Tachie-Menson.
Dr. Isaac Boaten Asafu-Adjaye.

**Legislative Council**

The Legislative Council is composed of the following members:

President—The Governor, or such person appointed by him, with the approval of the Secretary of State, to be the President.

**Ex-officio Members** (6)—The Colonial Secretary; The Chief Commissioner of the Colony; The Chief Commissioner of Ashanti; The Chief Commissioner of the Northern Territories; The Attorney-General; The Financial Secretary.

Elected Members (18)—Nine provincial members elected from the Eastern and Western Provinces of the Colony; four Ashanti members; five municipal members.

Nominated Members (6)—Six members nominated by the Governor.

**Foreign Consular Officers**

Consuls

Denmark—J. B. Saxel (*Honorary Consul*), Accra.
France—Charles Renner (*Consul*), Accra.
Liberia—C. E. M. Abbensett (*Consul*), Sekondi.
Netherlands—J. E. Fischer (*Acting Consul*), Accra.
Norway—R. M. Barr (*Honorary Consul*), Sekondi.
Switzerland—R. Knittel (*Honorary Consul*), Accra.
United States of America—E. Talbot Smith (*Consul*), Accra.

Vice-Consuls

Belgium—C. L. Leiterer (*Vice-Consul*), Accra.
France—G. Becquey (*Vice-Consul*), Accra.
Greece—A. G. Leventis (*Honorary Vice-Consul*), Accra.
Liberia—N. B. Edwards (*Vice-Consul*), Accra.
Spain—G. B. Kirk (*Honorary Vice-Consul*), Accra.
United States of America—Robert B. Houston, Jr. (*Vice-Consul*), Accra.

**Bibliography**

- *A History of the Gold Coast and Ashanti*, by W. W. Claridge. Murray, 1915, 36s.
- *The Gold Coast*, 1931, by A. W. Cardinall. Government Printer, Accra, 1932, 7s. 6d.
- *A Short History of the Gold Coast*, by W. E. Ward. Longmans Green, 1945, 3s. 6d.
- *Gold Coast Institutions*, by C. Hayford. Sweet & Maxwell, 1903, 15s.
