HONG KONG

SITUATION AND AREA

The Colony of Hong Kong is situated at the mouth of the Canton River about 40 miles east of Macao and 91 miles south of Canton between 22° 9' and 22° 35' N. latitude and 113° 50' and 114° 30' E. longitude. The island of Hong Kong on which is situated the capital city of Victoria is about 11 miles long and of a breadth varying from two to five miles, its area being about 32 square miles. Opposite to the island is the peninsula of Kowloon (3½ square miles) which was ceded to Great Britain in 1860. A number of smaller islands including Stonecutters Island (¼ square mile) Green Island and Apichau, are also included in the ceded territory of the Colony of Hong Kong. The other component of the colony is the new territories which were leased for a period of 99 years from the Chinese Government by an agreement concluded in 1898. The new territories include the walled city of Kowloon, concerning which it was originally agreed in 1898 that the Chinese officials then stationed there should continue to exercise jurisdiction except so far as might be inconsistent with military requirements for the defence of the colony, but in the following year the Chinese officials ceased to exercise jurisdiction within Kowloon City, and it thereupon became incorporated in the leased territory. The total area of the new territories, which includes a large number of islands as well as a portion of the mainland lying behind Kowloon, is about 359 square miles, making the total area of the colony 391 square miles.

CLIMATE

The climate of Hong Kong is sub-tropical, and is governed to a large extent by the monsoons, the winter being normally cool and dry and the summer hot and humid. The range of temperatures is very considerable, falling from a monthly average of 82° in July to 59° in February, the average for the year being 72°. The temperature very rarely rises above 95° or falls below 40°. The humidity in spring and summer is very high, at times reaching 95 per cent., while in early winter it may fall as low as 20 per cent. The mean annual rainfall is about 85 inches, of which about 67 inches normally falls between May and September. Sunshine varies from an average of 94 hours in the month of March to 217 hours during October.

The north-east monsoon sets in during October and lasts until April. The early winter is the most pleasant time of the year, the weather being generally sunny and the atmosphere often exceedingly dry. Later in the winter, cloud is more frequent though rainfall remains slight until May. The transition from north-east to south-west monsoon is fairly rapid. During this transitional period, fog and very low cloud are common. From May onwards, the south-west monsoon, a warm, damp wind, usually from the south-east brings with it heavy rain and high humidity. Typhoons occur occasionally between June and October, although they are sometimes experienced before or after this period. There is little difference between the climate of the island and that of the immediately adjacent mainland though generally the temperature on the island is slightly lower and the humidity slightly greater, but the northern part of the leased territory has a much lower rainfall.

GENERAL DESCRIPTION

The waterways of the colony with an area of ten square miles form one of the most magnificent harbours in the world. The entrance from the east is by the Lyemun Strait (Lei Yu Mun) where less than half a mile separates the island from the mainland. The granite hills which surround it rise between two and three thousand feet high, the whole forming a panorama of singular beauty. At the base of the hills which protect the south side of the harbour the city of Victoria proper extends for nearly five miles, and a built-up area extends for over three miles east of the original city boundary. Most of the urban area is flat reclaimed land, though streets and houses have straggled some way up the hillside away from the harbour, and residences (many now ruined by indiscriminate looting during the Japanese occupation) cling high on the slopes of Victoria Peak (1,823 feet).

The Kowloon Peninsula, which was formerly covered by low hills but has been extensively levelled, has been extended in area by various reclamations and has developed rapidly as a residential suburb. It contains also the main industrial area of the colony, while on the western shore are the wharves for ocean-going ships, and the terminus of the Kowloon-Canton railway occupies the extreme southern tip of the peninsula. On the reclaimed area at the northern end of Kowloon Bay lies the colony's only aerodrome at Kai Tak.

Behind Kowloon lies the main part of the new territories, by far the larger part of which consists of steep and barren hillsides. The highest point is the mountain of Tai Mo Shan which lies seven miles north-west of Kowloon and is 3,130 feet in height. The eastern side of the new territories mainland is mountainous and extends to the rocky and deeply indented coastline of Mirs Bay. A few villages make a frugal living by farming its narrow valleys and fishing the innumerable inlets. In the north-western part of the new territories lies the colony's main area of cultivable land stretching to the marshes on the eastern shore of Deep Bay. Also included in the new territories are 75 islands, many of which are uninhabited. The largest of these is Lantao (Tai Yu Shan), an island more than twice the size of Hong Kong island itself, rugged and beautiful in appearance, and rising to twin peaks of over 3,000 feet.

HISTORY

Until 1841 the island now known as Hong Kong was inhabited only by a few fishermen, stonecutters and farmers, and provided a notorious retreat for smugglers and pirates. In January of that year, it was occupied by British forces, partly as a reprisal for the treatment of British merchants in Canton and partly as a base from which trade with China could be conducted free from the excesses of arbitrary power. The cession was confirmed by the Treaty of Nanking in August, 1842. In 1860 the Convention of Peking added the Kowloon Peninsula and Stonecutters Island to the Crown Colony; and under a further Convention of Peking, signed in 1898, the new territories, including Mirs Bay and Deep Bay, up to the high water line on their northern shores, were leased to Great Britain for a period of 99 years.

Almost a century of uninterrupted peaceful development followed the Treaty of Nanking. The fine natural harbour developed into one of the world's great ports, and the freedom of the port ensured the role of entrepôt both for the
trade and for the labour of China's southern provinces. Reclaimations were carried out; roads built, and anti-malarial measures initiated; shipyards capable of constructing 10,000-ton ships, docks to accommodate the world's largest liners, and light industries all developed with the years.

In 1938, the fall of Canton to the Japanese invaders brought thousands of homeless refugees from South China. Hong Kong itself was attacked on 8th December, 1941, and fell on Christmas day after 18 days' fighting. The ensuing occupation by the Japanese lasted for over 3½ years, during which Europeans were interned, while many of those not interned also suffered great hardships. Liberation came at last on 30th August, 1945, when units of the British Pacific Fleet entered the harbour. For the ensuing eight months the colony was governed by a military administration, and on 1st May, 1946, civil government was re-established. With the return of civil government came the news that His Majesty's Government wished to accord to the people of Hong Kong a degree of self-government. A new constitution involving the establishment of a municipal council and an alteration in the constitution of the Legislative Council was approved by the Secretary of State for the Colonies in July, 1947.

CONSTITUTION

The Government is administered, under Letters Patent of 14th February, 1917, by a Governor advised by an executive council at present comprising in addition to the Governor seven official and four unofficial members, two of whom are Chinese; and by a legislative council presided over by the Governor, and comprising not more than nine official and eight unofficial members. Of the unofficial members of the Legislative Council six are nominated by the Crown on the recommendation of the Governor, three being Chinese; one is nominated by the Justices of the Peace and one by the Chamber of Commerce. The unofficial members of the Executive and Legislative Councils vacate their seats, after five and four years respectively, from date of appointment.

The English Common Law forms the basis of the legal system, modified by Hong Kong Ordinances of which an edition, revised to 1931, was published in 1938. The law as to civil procedure was codified by Ordinance No. 3 of 1901. The Colonial Courts of Admiralty Act, 1890, regulates the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court in Admiralty cases. As indicated above a revised constitution for the colony has now been approved. Two alterations have been made. In the first place the composition of the Legislative Council is to consist of seven and not, as at present, nine official members, the number of unofficial members remaining unchanged. An unofficial majority will thus be created, although the Governor will still be in a position to control the Council by the use of his original and casting votes.

The second change is the institution of a municipal council. The council is to consist of 30 members, two-thirds of whom will be elected and one-third nominated by official bodies. The Chinese community will be represented by one-half of the members of the Council, and the non-Chinese also by one half. The Council's administrative area is to comprise the whole of the Island of Hong Kong, the ceded Kowloon territory and that part of the new territories known as New Kowloon. The Council will be responsible for the discharge of such functions as are delegated to it by the Legislature.

POPULATION

No official census has been taken since 1931 when the total population was found to be 864,117. By 1941 the figure was estimated to have risen to 1,600,000. During the Japanese occupation the population fell rapidly until by August, 1945, it was estimated to be less than 750,000. Since then there has been a great influx of people from South China, and while no accurate estimate can be made it is considered that the total population of the Colony at the end of 1946 was about 1,600,000 of whom about 6,000–7,000 were British subjects from the United Kingdom and the Dominions, 2,500 were Indians, almost 4,000 Portuguese (the majority British citizens), 250 Americans and 250 Stateless.

ADMINISTRATION

Under the general direction of the Colonial Secretariat, the administrative functions of Government are discharged by some 30 Departments, all the officers of which are members of the Civil Service. There are five Legal sub-departments excluding the Judiciary. The Financial Secretary has, since 1938, assumed a purely administrative function in the Secretariat and under his direction, the Treasury is responsible for the public accounts. The assessment and collection of rates is the responsibility of the Commissioner, Rating and Valuation Department, while the Commissioner of Inland Revenue is concerned with the collection of miscellaneous indirect taxation and of the direct tax on earnings and profits which was introduced in 1947. The Superintendent of Imports and Exports is charged with the collection of import and excise duties and with the direction of preventive work.

The Secretary for Chinese Affairs, who is a Senior Administrative Officer, has a wide and general responsibility in all matters affecting the Chinese community. The Labour Office, until recently a sub-department of the Secretariat for Chinese Affairs, has now become a separate department. Public Health is the responsibility of the Medical Department and the Sanitary Department. The Public Works Department concerns itself with roads, buildings, waterworks, piers, government transport and similar matters.

Local administration in the New Territories is in the hands of a District Officer. In addition to his administrative duties, this officer is Magistrate and Land Officer for his district, and is empowered to hear small debts cases and to decide summarily certain types of cases concerning land.

The Head of the Sanitary Department is ex officio the Chairman of the Urban Council. The functions and authority of this council are more restricted than its title suggests and are subordinate in many respects to the executive authority of Government. The Council's power to originate subsidiary legislation in matters concerning public health and conservancy is subject to confirmation by the Legislative Council.

Other permanent Government departments are the Audit Department, the Education Department which controls the Government schools and supervises all private schools within the Colony, the Fire Brigade, Harbour Department, Department of Air Services, Police Department, Kowloon-Canton Railway, Post Office which controls the local broadcasting stations and telecommunication services, the Prison Department and the Royal Observatory. The establishment
of a Public Relations Office is a post-war development; a further new and senior appointment is that of the Secretary for Development who is responsible for all matters concerning the exploitation of the Colony's natural resources.

A number of temporary departments are in existence, including the Office of the Custodian of Property and the Department of Supplies, Trade and Industry which supervises rationing, price control and the importation of controlled commodities.

RELIGION

There are in the Colony an Anglican Cathedral, a Roman Catholic Cathedral, and a considerable number of churches and chapels of Anglican, Roman Catholic and various other denominations, both for the European population and for those of the Chinese population who are Christians. There is also a Jewish community in the Colony.

The religion of the bulk of the Chinese population is a blend of Buddhism, Confucianism and Taoism, but it includes a fair proportion of Christians and a small number of Muslims. The Indian community consists mainly of Parsees, Sikhs, Hindus and Muslims.

CURRENCY AND BANKING

The unit of currency in the Colony is the Hong Kong dollar. Until 1935 it was based on the Mexican Silver Dollar and the British Silver Dollar, and considerable fluctuation occurred until the silver standard was abandoned. As from 5th December, 1935, under the Currency Ordinance 1935, an Exchange Fund was established and it was provided that the note issuing Banks, namely the Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, the Chartered Bank of India, Australia and China, and the Mercantile Bank of India, should surrender to the Fund all silver previously deposited against note issues, and should deposit full sterling cover for all notes issued thereafter. Since 1935 the value of the Hong Kong dollar has been maintained both before and after the Japanese occupation at approximately one shilling and threepence.

Notes of denominations from one dollar upwards are issued by the note issuing banks, and the Government issues notes of one dollar, ten cents, five cents and one cent. The colony is included in the sterling bloc and the authorised banks for dealing in foreign exchange are, in addition to the three note-issuing banks mentioned above:

Thomas Cook and Sons, Ltd.
Chase Bank.
National City Bank of New York, Inc.
American Express Co., Inc.
Nederlandsch-Indische Handelsbank.
Netherlands Trading Society.
Banque Belge pour l'Etranger.
Banque de l'Indo-Chine.
Bank of China.
Bank of Communications.
Bank of Canton.
Shanghai Commercial and Savings Bank.
Bank of East Asia.
Overseas Chinese Banking Corporation.
Chinese Postal Remittances and Savings Bank.
Farmers Bank of China.
China and South Seas Bank.

In addition to these incorporated banks, there are in the colony many Chinese banks which handle a considerable volume of remittances from Chinese living overseas to their relations in China.

COMMUNICATIONS

(a) Shipping

Hong Kong is the principal deep water port in the South China area. The shortage of shipping tonnage due to the war has so far precluded the resumption of many of the regular passenger services to and from the United Kingdom other than those offered by vessels under requisition or direction, for temporary purposes, by the Ministry of Transport, and in these vessels only limited accommodation for civilians is available. The P. & O. Steam Navigation Co. is commencing a limited service with one vessel at the end of 1947, and this service will be augmented as vessels become available.

Passenger services to and from Canada and U.S.A. are confined, at present, to vessels under the American Flag. Cargo services to and from Europe and the U.S.A. operated by the P. & O., Holt Line, Ben Line, Bank Line and Glen Line have greatly improved and are now frequent and regular.

China Coastal services to and from Hong Kong have been greatly restricted by the Chinese Government Regulations, but a regular passenger and cargo service is operated by the China Navigation Company to and from Canton.

Passenger and cargo services to the Netherlands East Indies, Straits, Burma and India are operated by the Indo China Steam Navigation Co., China Navigation Company, British India Steam Navigation Company, Java China Japan Line, and the K.P.M.

During the year ending 31st March, 1947 the monthly tonnage of ocean going vessels using the port showed progressive increases. The figure for April, 1946, was 232,908 tons, while that for March, 1947, was 585,773 tons.

(b) Air Services

Hong Kong is a most important link in the net-work of post-war aviation. Saigon in Indo-China is 5½ hours' flying distance away and Singapore can be reached in 7 hours' flying on the direct route. The journey to Nanking, the capital of China, takes 4 hours, Manila in the Philippine Islands is only 4½ hours' journey, and Japan can be reached in one stage by flying boat in 9½ hours.

The colony's only airfield, Kai Tak, is to the north-east of Kowloon and 15 minutes' drive from Kowloon's main hotel. Situated as it is close under a range of steep hills rising at one point to a height of 1,800 feet, it is not a first-class airfield by modern standards and the question of replacing it is under consideration. The navigational aids include high frequency and very high frequency direction finding, radar beacons, a medium frequency beacon and a beam approach beacon system. Of the civil aircraft using the field during 1946, only the British Overseas Airways Corporation aircraft were equipped to use radar aids.

The British Overseas Airways Corporation maintain a bi-weekly flying boat service to the United Kingdom, and Hong Kong's key position in relation to air traffic is evidenced by the following details of air services, the majority of which are utilised for the carriage of air mails:—
| Name of Aviation Corporation | Destination and Routes | Service |
|-----------------------------|------------------------|---------|
| B.O.A.C. (Plymouth Class)   | Hong Kong and United Kingdom via Bangkok, Rangoon, Calcutta, Karachi, Basra, Cairo, Augusta and connecting the South African Airways. | Twice a week. |
| B.O.A.C. (Hythe Class)      | Hong Kong and Singapore to connect with the Qantas Batavia, Australia and New Zealand services. | Once a week. |
| R.A.F. (R.O.)               | Hong Kong and Singapore via Saigon | Twice a week. |
| R.A.F. (R.Y.)               | Hong Kong and Iwakuni (Japan) | Twice a week. |
| C.P.A.                      | Hong Kong and Singapore to connect with the Qantas Australia and New Zealand services. | Twice a week. |
| Skyways                     | Hong Kong and Singapore to connect with the Qantas Sourabaya, Australia and New Zealand services. | Twice a week. |
| Air France                  | Hong Kong and Paris via Saigon | Once a week. |
| P.A.L.                      | Hong Kong and San Francisco via Manila, P.I. | Twice a week. |
| C.N.A.C.                    | (a) Hong Kong and Chungking via Canton and Kweilin.  
(b) Hong Kong and Calcutta via Kunming  
(c) Hong Kong and Shanghai via Canton  
(d) Hong Kong and Hoihow via Canton  
(e) Hong Kong and Manila, P.I. | Once a week.  
Four times a week.  
Once a week.  
Once a week. |
| C.A.T.C.                    | (a) Hong Kong and Peiping via Shanghai, Hankow, Nanking and Tsingtao.  
(b) Hong Kong and Tainan (Formosa) via Swatow, Amoy and Foochow. | Three times a week.  
Once a week. |

(c) Postal Services

The large number of scheduled and unscheduled ship and air lines passing through Hong Kong thus enables the Hong Kong Postal Administration to institute excellent mail facilities with other countries throughout the world.

Rates vary from—

Local posting 5 cents per oz.
China by surface mail, 8 cents per oz.
British Empire surface mail, 20 cents for the first oz. and 10 cents for each additional oz.

To Air Mail—
To United Kingdom, 80 cents per ½ oz.
To Europe, $1·50 per ½ oz.
To most Colonies $1·00 per ½ oz.
To U.S.A. and Canada, $2·00.

Direct Money Order Services are in operation with Great Britain, Eire, Canada, Burma through India, India, Ceylon, Mauritius, Malaya (including Federated Malay States), British North Borneo, Norfolk Island through Sydney, the Dominions of Australia and New Zealand.

British Postal Orders are issued and paid at the General Post Office.

Telegraphic Money Orders are exchanged with the United Kingdom only.

Trade Charge Money Order system is in operation with the United Kingdom and Malaya.

Due to the effect of Exchange Control, it has not been possible to re-open money order services with countries outside the sterling area.

The exchange of postal orders with Egypt and Sudan has been discontinued.

(d) Telecommunications and Telephones

Hong Kong, prior to the war, was extremely well situated as regards telegraphic communication, but all cable routes were disrupted during the Far Eastern hostilities, due to wanton destruction and looting. Cable and Wireless have nevertheless managed to repair two cables since the re-occupation, and excellent services are now maintained by the Hong Kong/Singapore (completed April, 1946) and the Hong Kong/Manila Cable (completed May, 1947). The former of these constitutes the main line of communication to the West and South, and as each is capable of slightly more than 2,750,000 groups per year in both directions, there is little danger of the service being overtaxed. The rehabilitation of other cables to the North and South is under active consideration.

Cable and Wireless also maintain wireless circuits with the following cities: London, Shanghai, Manila (indirectly to U.S.A.), Singapore, Saigon, Hanoi, Bangkok, Colombo and Chungking. It is of interest to note that the London circuit (Hong Kong's second line of communication with the United Kingdom) is relayed automatically by Colombo in order to prolong possible working hours. A radio telephone
link was opened to Manila on the 8th September, 1947, and further services of this nature are under contemplation.

Marine, Aeradio and Broadcasting services are handled by the Government Radio Office with which Cable and Wireless work in very close conjunction.

Call signals are as follows:

- VPS for marine, 500 k/cs.
- For commercial services, as in Berne lists.
- ZBW medium wave, European Broadcasting, 845 k/cs.
- ZEK medium wave, Chinese Broadcasting, 640 k/cs.
- ZBW3 short wave, 2 k/w, 9·525 m/cs. shared by ZBW and ZEK.

Commercial short and medium wave transmitters are housed at Cape d'Aguilar, receivers at Victoria Peak, aeradio and broadcasting transmitters at Hunghom, the broadcasting studio is in the Gloucester Building, and marine receivers at Observatory Wireless Station. The aeradio service control at Kai Tak Airfield covers point-to-point communications, air/ground control, D.F. bearings, meteorological reports. Navigation beacons are situated at Victoria Peak, Hunghom, d'Aguilar and Waglan lighthouse. V.H.F. systems are utilised by the Police Department and Harbour Office.

Broadcasting transmissions cover a minimum period of 6 hours daily, and though the power of the station cannot compare in size with those established elsewhere, a record number of 20,000 receiving licences issued in 1947 indicates the popularity of the local programmes.

An automatic telephone service is provided by the Hong Kong Telephone Co., Ltd. By the end of 1946 over 16,000 subscribers had been reconnected and plans for rehabilitation and expansion are in hand with a view to providing services for 28,000 lines as soon as the necessary trained staff and equipment are available.

(e) Internal Communications

Kowloon in the colony is the southern terminal of a railway system extending to the north as far as Hankow in Central China. From Shum-chun on the border of the New Territories northward to Canton the route is now operated by the Canton-Hankow Railway, and is referred to as the southern section of that line. From Shum-chun to Kowloon, a distance representing 36 kilometres out of a total of 183 kilometres from Kowloon to Canton, the railway is operated by the Hong Kong Government and is known as the British section of the Kowloon-Canton Railway. In addition to local services and goods trains, a through passenger service to Canton, a journey of about 4½ hours, is maintained.

In spite of difficulties of construction, owing to the hilly nature of much of the colony, and of maintenance, due to summer seasonal downpours of rain, Hong Kong is reasonably well served with roads. Although the total area of the colony is only 390 square miles, over 400 miles of roads are maintained, 173 miles of which are in the island of Hong Kong, 106 in Kowloon, and the remainder in the New Territories. About 90 per cent. of these roads are of modern metalled construction. Along the length of most of them views of great scenic beauty are to be seen.

A large number of ferry services cross the harbour on various routes connecting the island of Hong Kong with the mainland and with the more important islands. The most frequent service is operated on the shortest harbour crossing between the tip of Kowloon Peninsula and the nearest point on Hong Kong island. A vehicular ferry service is also maintained between Hong Kong Island and Kowloon.

There are motorbus services both on Hong Kong island and on the mainland, and an electric tram service is in operation on Hong Kong island from Shaukiwan through the city to Kennedy Town. A cable tramway connects the city with the higher levels in addition to the excellent motor road. Rickshaws are still in use, particularly in the city areas.

SOCIAL SERVICES

(a) Health

Matters of public health are the responsibility of the Medical Department, the functions of which are separated into different divisions, e.g. hospitals, health, investigation and relief. The hospitals division which includes out-patient departments and public dispensaries, cares for the sick and injured in fifteen separate hospitals, fourteen dispensaries and two polyclinics. The hospitals provide approximately 2,800 beds for accidents, infectious diseases (including tuberculosis), mental and general diseases. Most of the hospital accommodation is on Hong Kong island and a smaller number of beds is available on the Kowloon Peninsula and in the New Territories.

The health division has a variety of functions. Besides the supervision of the cleanliness of houses, streets, and open spaces, these include the control of anti-epidemic measures such as vaccination, inoculation, disinfection, the care of expectant and parturient mothers, the neonatal care of infants, and the inspection and treatment of school children. This division is also responsible for malaria control, port health work, food and drug control, public health, propaganda, the treatment and prevention of social diseases, the supervision of markets and slaughter houses, and the registration of births and deaths.

The investigation division is subdivided into pathological laboratories (one on each side of the harbour), a chemical laboratory, a biochemical laboratory, and public mortuaries where autopsies are carried out on all bodies of persons where the cause of death is in doubt.

On 31st December, 1946, the staff of the Medical Department consisted of:

- Doctors, 108, of whom 30 were Europeans.
- Nurses and Hospital Dressers, 647, of whom 59 were Europeans.
- Health Inspectors, 109, of whom 40 were Europeans.
- Others (including technicians, subordinate and menial staff), 1,963.

(b) Education

Education in Hong Kong is voluntary and is largely in the hands of Government and of missionary bodies. The present system may be said to have started in 1913 when the Education Ordinance from which the Director of Education derives his legal powers came into operation. Under this ordinance all schools, unless specially exempted, are required to register with the Director of Education and must comply with the regulations under the ordinance governing staff, buildings number of pupils and health.
The schools in the colony may be classified as follows:

(a) Government schools, staffed and maintained by the Education Department.

(b) Grant schools, run mainly by missionary bodies with the assistance of a grant from Government to meet the difference between approved expenditure and income.

(c) Subsidized schools, those private schools in receipt of a subsidy from Government.

(d) Private schools which are not in need of or do not merit Government assistance.

(e) Military schools and certain others which are exempted from the provisions of the Education Ordinance.

The medium of instruction in schools varies from one category to another. In some, English is the sole language, in others Chinese, and a number of schools have classes in both languages. The grant-aided schools mainly use English, although one school is entirely taught in Chinese. Teaching in subsidized and private schools is usually carried out in Chinese. Normally, secondary education in English is to a great extent in the hands of government and grant-aided schools, while subsidized schools and private schools are largely concerned with though not confined to the field of primary education. Evening classes for adults in both technical and educational subjects are carried on under the aegis of the evening institute. The rehabilitation of the Government technical college is well advanced, and it has already recommenced to work on a small scale. The Northcote Training College and the Rural Training College are maintained for those intending to take up teaching in urban and rural schools respectively.

The University of Hong Kong was incorporated in 1911 and opened in 1912. By 1941 there were in existence, in addition to classroom accommodation for 500 students, six hostels, laboratories, staff residences, a gymnasium, workshops and playing fields. As a result of the occupation of the colony the university suffered considerable loss or damage to equipment and buildings. Important questions of long-term policy are under consideration concerning the future of the university and have affected the pace of its rehabilitation, but towards the end of 1946 it was possible to reopen first year classes leading towards courses in the four faculties of medicine, engineering, arts and science with a total enrolment of 109.

(c) Labour Services

The Labour Office, first established in 1938, as a sub-department of the Secretariat for Chinese Affairs, was set up as a separate department in June, 1946. It is concerned mainly with—

(a) The registration of factories and workshops.

(b) The inspection of factories with the aims of educating managements and enforcing the safety and health provisions of the Factories and Workshops Ordinance (No. 18 of 1937).

(c) The provision of conciliation machinery for the settlement of trade disputes, including the computation of "food and fuel" figures which are the basis of a variable rehabilitation allowance governing the wages of approximately 30,000 workmen employed by the larger European firms and by the Government.

Hitherto guilds have been registered voluntarily with the Secretariat for Chinese Affairs, and in 1946, 136 were registered with memberships ranging from a few hundred up to five thousand. Some of them have developed along the lines distinctive of modern trade unionism and action has been taken towards guiding their proper development and providing statutory framework for the registration of trade unions. A labour advisory board, under the chairmanship of the Commissioner for Labour, has been constituted, and its members represent the interests of European and Chinese employers and of Chinese labour.

Existing labour legislation includes—

(a) Factories and Workshop Ordinance (No. 18 of 1937), which provides for the registration and inspection of factories.

(b) The Employers' and Servants' Ordinance (No. 45 of 1902) which provides for the giving of notice or payment of wages in lieu before dismissal in the case of monthly contracts of service.

(c) The Trade Boards Ordinance (No. 15 of 1940) which provides the machinery for fixing minimum wages, overtime rates and normal working hours in trades where wage standards are unreasonable.

Projected legislation includes—

(a) A Trades Union and Trades Disputes Ordinance.

(b) A Workmen's Compensation Ordinance.

(c) A Labour Code, to give effect to International Conventions as they are ratified by the United Kingdom and applied to this colony.

(d) Social Welfare

The vulnerable groups in Hong Kong still include thousands of destitutes or semi-destitutes of all ages, for whom free food and cheap food kitchens, shelters for street-sleepers, some relief camps for the homeless, and assistance in repatriation have been provided by official and voluntary organisations working in close co-operation. Experiments in the fostering of community life have been carried out by voluntary associations, in an official destitutes' camp and through agricultural development centres. Special institutions provide for the needs of deaf, blind or orphan children, and in addition there is one boys' approved school, a juvenile court with its probation officer, a rural camp for child vagrants, and 19 voluntary youth clubs. Medical welfare work is carried out by the Almoner Department and in some maternity and infant welfare centres. The official and unofficial Family Case-work Centres all act also as information bureaux; one of the government departments which handles family cases had in addition wide responsibilities in connection with the protection of women and girls and the registration and inspection of adopted children.

In August, 1947, a Social Welfare Department was established, within the framework of the Secretariat for Chinese Affairs, under an administrative officer who had received special training in the United Kingdom, and arrangements were immediately put in hand for further extending and co-ordinating constructive social welfare activities throughout the colony.
Public Revenue and Expenditure

Up to and including 1939, the colony's financial year coincided with the calendar year, but thereafter the financial year was changed to the twelve months ending on the 31st March.

| Period          | Revenue       | Expenditure   |
|-----------------|---------------|---------------|
| 1936            | $30,042,984   | $29,513,520   |
| 1937            | $33,196,367   | $32,111,222   |
| 1938            | $36,735,854   | $37,175,897   |
| 1939            | $41,478,052   | $37,949,116   |
| 1940–41 (15 months) | $70,175,114 | $64,787,556 |
| 1941–42 (estimated) | $56,786,000 | $60,642,715 |
| 1946–47 (estimated 11 months) | $51,308,300 | $167,854,576 |

There is no general customs tariff in Hong Kong, import duties being confined to liquor, tobacco, hydrocarbon oils, toilet preparations and proprietary medicines and table water. A special foreign registration fee of 20 per cent. of the value of a motor vehicle is payable in respect of any vehicle not produced within the British Empire. Another important source of revenue is rates (varying from 15–17 per cent.) on the annual value of property. In 1947 a tax on income from property, salaries, profits and interest was introduced, the standard rate being 10 per cent.

Public Debt

The Public Debt of the Colony as at the 31st December, 1946, totalled $26,238,000 comprising three issues:

- 4 per cent. Conversion Loan raised in 1933 and repayable not later than the 1st August, 1953—$4,838,000.
- The Sinking Fund of this loan, which is fully invested, amounted to £177,921 9s. 2d. as at the 31st December, 1946.
- 3½ per cent. Dollar Loan raised in 1934—$10,080,000.
- 3½ per cent. Dollar Loan raised in 1940—$11,320,000.

The two latter loans are redeemable by 25 annual drawings which were suspended during the occupation of the Colony but have since been brought up to date.

Trade

The following table shows the value of the Colony's imports and exports during 1946 (excluding Government sponsored cargo) and gives the corresponding figures for 1936–1940:

| Year | Imports, millions of $ | Exports, millions of $ |
|------|------------------------|------------------------|
| 1936 | 452·4                  | 350·9                  |
| 1937 | 617·1                  | 467·3                  |
| 1938 | 618·2                  | 511·9                  |
| 1939 | 594·2                  | 533·4                  |
| 1940 | 752·7                  | 621·8                  |
| 1946 | 933·5                  | 765·6                  |

The increase shown in the 1946 figures does not represent an increase in the volume of commodities handled, since the value of all goods was very much greater than the value of similar goods before the war. The importance of this factor is shown in the following table of wholesale price indices (unweighted):

|                | 1938 | 1939 | 1940 | 1941 | 1946 |
|----------------|------|------|------|------|------|
| Foodstuffs     | 100  | 96·8 | 124·6| 155·4| 704·8|
| Textiles       | 100  | 91·2 | 124·8| 138·3| 769·1|
| Metal and minerals | 100  | 100·0| 141·8| 160·2| 287·3|
| Miscellaneous Articles | 100  | 100·4| 138·4| 168·9| 604·5|

There are no figures available for an exact quantitative comparison but it is estimated that a volume of trade equivalent to about 50 per cent. of the volume of pre-war trade was handled in 1946.

Further information about Hong Kong will be found in the Annual Report of the Colony and the Annual Departmental Reports.

Governors

1843 Sir Henry Pottinger, Bart., G.C.B.
1844 Sir John F. Davis, Bart., K.C.B.
1848 Sir George Bonham, Bart., K.C.B.
1854 Sir John Bowring, Knt.
1854 Lieut.-Col. Caine (Lieut.-Governor).
1859 Sir Hercules G. R. Robinson, Knt.
1866 Sir Richard Graves MacDonnell, C.B.
1869 Major-Gen. Whitfield (Lieut.-Governor).
1871 Sir R. G. MacDonnell, K.C.M.G., C.B.
1872 Sir Arthur Kennedy, K.C.M.G., C.B.
1877 Sir John Pope Hennessy, K.C.M.G.
1883 Sir George Ferguson Bowen, G.C.M.G.
1887 Sir G. W. Des Voeux, K.C.M.G.
1891 Sir W. Robinson, K.C.M.G.
1898 Sir Henry Arthur Blake, G.C.M.G.
1904 Major Sir Matthew Nathan, K.C.M.G., R.E.
1907 Sir Frederick John Dealty Lugard, G.C.M.G., C.B., D.S.O.
1912 Sir Francis Henry May, K.C.M.G., LL.D.
1919 Sir Reginald Edward Stubbs, K.C.M.G.
1925 Sir Cecil Clementi, K.C.M.G., LL.D.
1930 Sir William Peel, K.C.M.G., K.B.E.
1935 Sir Andrew Caldecott, K.C.M.G., C.B.E.
1937 Sir Geoffrey Alexander Stafford Northcote, K.C.M.G.
1941 Sir Mark Aitchison Young, G.C.M.G.
1947 Sir Alexander William George Herder Grantham, K.C.M.G.

Executive Council

Governor—Sir Alexander William George Herder Grantham, K.C.M.G.

Ex-officio Members

The General Officer Commanding—Major-General G. W. E. J. Erskine, C.B., D.S.O.
The Colonial Secretary—D. M. MacDougall, C.M.G.
The Attorney-General—J. B. Griffin, K.C.
The Secretary for Chinese Affairs—R. R. Todd.
The Financial Secretary—C. G. S. Follows, C.M.G. (Acting).

Appointed Official Members

T. Megarry (Cadet Officer).
B. C. K. Hawkins, O.B.E. (Commissioner of Labour).

Unofficial Members

A. Morse, C.B.E.
D. F. Landale.
Chau Tsun-nin, C.B.E.
Lo Man-kam, C.B.E.
Clerk of Councils
K. M. A. Barnett (Cadet Officer).

LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL
The Governor—President.

Ex-officio Members
The General Officer Commanding the Troops.
The Colonial Secretary.
The Attorney General.
The Secretary for Chinese Affairs.
The Financial Secretary.

Appointed Official Members.
T. Megarry (Cadet Officer).
V. Kenniff (Director of Public Works).
Dr. I. Newton (Director of Medical Services).

Unofficial Members
D. F. Landale.
Chau Tsun-nin, C.B.E.
Lo Man-kam, C.B.E.
L. d'Almada e Castro.
R. D. Gillespie.
Dr. Chau Sik-nin.
M. M. Watson.

Deputy Clerk of Councils
Alastair Todd (Cadet Officer).

BIBLIOGRAPHY
Hong Kong: birth, adolescence and coming of age, by G. R. Sayer. O.U.P. 1937. 18s.
A Brief History of Hong Kong, by Winifred A. Wood, Livingstone Press. 1940. 5s.

