KENYA

SITUATION AND AREA

The territory comprised under the name of "Kenya Colony and Protectorate", previously known as the East Africa Protectorate, roughly extends from latitude 4° N. to latitude 4° S. and from longitude 34° E. to longitude 41° E. It is bounded on the north by Abyssinia and the Sudan, on the west by the Uganda Protectorate, on the south by Tanganyika territory and on the east by the Indian Ocean and Somalia.

The Colony includes parts of two of the great African lakes; the land area is 219,730 square miles and the water area 5,230 square miles, making a total of 224,960 square miles.
The total area of 219,730 square miles may be divided as follows:

| Category                                      | Square Miles |
|-----------------------------------------------|--------------|
| Native areas (including native settlement areas) | 52,038       |
| Crown forests                                 | 4,746        |
| Townships, township reserves, etc.             | 291          |
| Other Government reserves                      | 287          |
| Alienated land and land available for alienation | 12,348      |
| Northern frontier, Turkana and extension from Uganda | 115,393    |
| Unclassified areas                            | 34,627       |
| **Total**                                     | **219,730**  |

**CLIMATE**

With the exception of the coast and the immediate interior, where the average temperature is about 80° F., the climate of Kenya is cool and invigorating. At Nairobi the mean temperature is 67° F., the mean maximum being 77° F., and the mean minimum 57° F.

There are generally two rainy seasons: the "Long Rains" of April to June, when the greater part of the rain falls, and the "Short Rains" of October to December; but in the high area west of the Rift Valley and north of the railway the wettest months are April to August. No month is invariably dry and near Lake Victoria showers occur on most afternoons. The mean annual rainfall on the coast is 40 inches, of which 20 inches fall in April and May. Inland the rainfall decreases to 10 inches and then increases with altitude to an average of 40 inches over the highlands. On higher ground and near the lake average annual totals reach 70 inches.

**GENERAL DESCRIPTION**

The northern part of the Colony, comprising three-fifths of the whole, is arid and comparatively waterless. The southern strip, in which almost all economic production is centred, comprises a low-lying coastal area and a plateau raised by volcanic action to a height varying from 3,000 feet to 10,000 feet. This area includes Mount Kenya (17,040 feet), Mount Elgon (14,000 feet), the Aberdare Range (about 12,000 feet to 13,000 feet) and part of the Great Rift Valley which is some 30 to 40 miles wide and often 2,000 feet to 3,000 feet lower than the country bounding it on either side. The land on the northern strip is traversed by the Kenya and Uganda Railway and that which lies outside townships is divided principally between native areas, and alienated farmland in European occupation.

The capital of the Colony is Nairobi, which is administered by a municipal council. Its population, based so far as non-natives are concerned on the issue of ration books, is—Europeans, 10,250; Asians and others, 36,510; with 66,040 Africans, giving a total of 112,800.

Mombasa is the principal port, administered by a municipal board, and has a population totalling 99,527, which includes 1,755 Europeans, 23,956 Indians, 15,272 Arabs and 56,449 Africans. These figures are again based on the issue of ration books, and, as with the Colony as a whole, await verification by the census which will be taken in 1948. Mombasa is an island of about seven square miles in area and has two harbours. Mombasa harbour is on the eastern side and Kilindini harbour to the south-west. There is a lighthouse and signal station at the entrance to the port.

Other towns having municipal status are Nakuru in the centre of the European farming district, Kisumu situated on Lake Victoria, and Eldoret.

**HISTORY**

The eastern and north-eastern boundaries were originally defined along the Juba River by an agreement with Italy (1891), but upon the cession of Jubaland to Italy in 1925, a commission was appointed to adjust these boundaries. The northern boundary is defined by an agreement with Abyssinia in 1947 which supersedes the original agreement of 1908.

The Protectorate is a strip of land extending ten miles inland along the coast from Tanganyika to Kipini and the islands of the Lamu Archipelago and consists of the mainland dominions of the Sultan of Zanzibar, in respect of which a rent of £10,000 per annum is paid to His Highness.

The original concession was made to a company, subsequently called the Imperial British East Africa Company, but the territory was transferred in 1895 to His Majesty's Government, and the whole Protectorate was placed under the control of a Commissioner and Commander-in-chief. It was transferred, in 1905, from the authority of the Foreign Office to that of the Colonial Office. By an Order in Council dated 9th November, 1906, the Protectorate was placed under a Governor and Commander-in-chief, and the Order in Council of 22nd October, 1906, constituted executive and legislative councils. The frontiers were defined by agreements with Germany (1890 and 1893) and Italy (1891). All foreign consular jurisdiction was, during the year 1908, transferred to the British court.

By the "Kenya Annexation Order-in-Council, 1920", the territories outside the mainland dominions of the Sultan of Zanzibar were established as a colony. This Order in Council came into operation on 23rd July, 1920, and the Sultan's mainland dominions are now styled the Protectorate of Kenya, whilst the remaining territory is known as the Colony of Kenya.

**CONSTITUTION**

Under the Royal Instructions dated 29th March, 1934, amended on 26th May, 1938, the Executive Council of the colony consists of the Chief Secretary, Attorney-General, Financial Secretary, Chief Native Commissioner (ex-officio members), such other persons holding office in the public service of the colony as the Governor may appoint (official members), and such persons (if any) not holding such office as the Governor may appoint (unofficial members), with the Governor as President. There are four such unofficial members. It is further provided that the Legislative Council of the colony shall consist of the Governor as President, 11 ex-officio members, not more than nine nominated official members, 11 European elected members, five Indian elected members, one Arab elected member, two nominated unofficial African members to represent the interests of the community and one nominated official member to represent the interests of the Arab community. The ex-officio members are the ex-officio members of the Executive Council, with the Commissioner for Lands, Mines and Surveys, Director of Medical Services, Director of Agriculture, Director of Education, General Manager of the Kenya and Uganda Railways and Harbours, Director of Public Works, and Commissioner of Customs. The composition of the Legislative Council will
however, shortly be changed by an amendment of Royal Instructions to provide for an unofficial majority (including an increased African membership) with a Speaker.

By the "Kenya Protectorate Order in Council, 1920," it was provided that the Governor of the colony should be Governor of the protectorate, that the Executive Council of the colony should be deemed to be the Executive Council of the protectorate, and that it should be lawful for the Legislative Council of the colony to legislate for the protectorate. The Supreme Court is situated at Nairobi, and sessions are also held at Mombasa, Nakuru, Eldoret, Kisumu, and various other places. In all cases to which natives are parties local ideas and customs are considered. The legal status of slavery has been abolished throughout the colony and protectorate.

The 1924 ordinance governing the election of European, Indian and Arab members to the Legislative Council was consolidated and amended in 1935, but not brought into operation until 1937, when new registers of voters were compiled for the general elections which took place in 1938. Under amendments to the 1924 ordinance the boundaries of several of the 11 European electoral areas had been altered, and certain areas renamed. These were continued in the 1935 ordinance, which, however, provided for three Indian electoral areas (two each to return two members and the other one) in place of the whole country forming one constituency returning five members. For Arabs, the whole country is still one constituency. The Indian and Arab franchise, like the European, is adult (over 21 years) suffrage, except that in the latter case it is made subject to the ability to write Arabic or Swahili in Arabic characters. The next general election will be in 1948.

By the enactment in 1924 of the Native Authority Amendment Ordinance a considerable measure of local self-government was conferred on Local Native Councils in the Colony. There are now twenty-six such Councils exercising powers of raising their own revenues by rates, engaging staff, undertaking works, and promoting the welfare of the inhabitants within their areas. They also possess powers of passing local legislation regulating health, agriculture, law and order, public works, and other subjects. Local Government Ordinances passed in 1928 in replacement of earlier legislation provide for local government in municipalities and the Settled Areas.

### POPULATION

The total population was estimated at 31st January, 1947, as follows:

| Group       | Estimate |
|-------------|----------|
| Europeans   | 23,284   |
| Indians     | 78,588   |
| Goans       | 5,993    |
| Arabs       | 21,020   |
| Other non-natives | 2,575 |

Total non-natives: 131,460

Africans: 4,055,895

Total: 4,187,355

**Note.**—These figures are, for other than Africans, based on the issue of ration books. The African figure is estimated. A census proper will be taken in 1948.

On the coast the Arabs and Swahilis predominate; further inland are races speaking Bantu languages, and non-Bantu tribes, such as the Nilotic Kavirondo, the Nandi, the Kipsigis, the Suk, the Turkana, the Masai, the Somali and the Galla.

### ADMINISTRATION

The Colony and Protectorate is divided into five provinces and one extra-provincial district viz.:

- **The Nyanza Province** (comprises the districts of North Kavirondo, South Kavirondo, Central Kavirondo, Kericho and Kisumu-Londiani).
- **The Rift Valley Province** (comprises the districts of Nakuru, Baringo, Laikipia, Samburu, Nandi, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo-Marakwet, Trans Nzoia and West Suk).
- **The Central Province** (comprises the districts of Nairobi, Kiambu, Thika, Fort Hall, Nyeri, Embu, Meru, Machakos and Kitui).
- **The Coast Province** (comprises the districts of Digo, Mombasa, Teita, Kilifi, Tana River and Lamu).
- **The Northern Province** (comprises the districts of Isiolo, Marsabit, Moyale, Wajir, Garissa and Turkana).
- **The Masai District** (comprises the districts of Narok and Kajiado).

### Post-War Reorganisation

In order to meet efficiently and expeditiously the complexity of post-war conditions and problems of development and reconstruction, plans for the reorganisation of the Government were set on foot early in 1945. Decentralisation of the work hitherto canalised along traditional lines to the Chief Secretary began by the institution of a system of organising departments in groups under members of the Executive Council.

Under this system the Chief Secretary became "Chief Secretary and Member for Development and Reconstruction." By Government Notice No. 674 of 1st August, 1945, an Authority for Development and Reconstruction was established, with the Chief Secretary as Chairman and Sir Reginald Edwin Robins, general manager of the Kenya and Uganda Railways and Harbours, and Sir Alfred Vincent, M.L.C., as members. The main powers and duties of the authority are to organise and superintend the execution of works and projects of reconstruction and development in accordance with approved plans communicated to it, and for that purpose to give directions to all departments or groups of departments of the Government. The establishment of the authority is reflected in the division of the 1946 estimates into two parts, the first part consisting of the ordinary budget of revenue and expenditure of the colony and protectorate, the second part comprising a Development and Reconstruction Fund, expenditure from which is controlled by the authority within the framework of the estimates of the authority as approved by the Legislative Council.

As part of this devolution of authority a Member for Health and Local Government has been appointed to take charge of the medical and local government departments and to represent these departments on the Executive and Legislative Councils. It is intended to establish a Local Government Board to supervise and control the activities of all local authorities, including local native councils which hitherto have not been the concern of the Local Government Department. Local Native Councils will be reconstituted as African district councils with powers and procedure similar to those of municipal authorities and district councils in the settled areas. The Local Government Board will work through...
standing committees for local government in urban, rural and purely African areas and relieve the Governor-in-Council of certain duties.

In health matters the member is the channel of communication between the Medical Department and the Government, and exercises a general supervision over the work of the department. He is also the Chairman of the Hospital Authority which has been set up to govern European hospitalisation. Municipal authorities are already public health authorities; and other local authorities will increasingly assume public health responsibilities.

A third change has been to designate the Attorney-General as the Member for Law and Order, and he is responsible for all that that title implies. The fourth appointment has been that of a Member for Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Natural Resources, who co-ordinates and lays down a general policy for the departments concerned with agriculture, veterinary services, forestry, game, soil and water conservation, research, and settlement, the latter including the settlement and re-settlement of Africans in the native lands, schemes for further European settlement, and investigations into the possibilities of Indian and Arab settlement. The Financial Secretary is now the Member for Finance.

Much of the administrative work hitherto performed by the Chief Secretary has been transferred to the Deputy Chief Secretary, who has been given a seat on the Executive Council as well as on the Legislative Council. The latter's work in turn now falls on the Administrative Secretary. To the Secretariat staff has been added an Economic and Commercial Adviser, whose services are available to the development and reconstruction authority as well as to the Government.

There has been formed the Lands, Mines, and Surveys Department, which combines the functions of the lands, survey, and registration divisions with those of the former Mining and Geological Department.

RELIGION

Indigenous religious beliefs were animistic; Mohammedanism had established itself on the coast before the coming of British rule, and has more recently established itself in Nairobi and other towns up-country. Mohammedanism also prevails among certain of the tribes of the Northern Frontier Province. A number of Christian missionary societies have been at work in the colony and protectorate, and indigenous Christian churches in full communion with the historic churches have been established; it is estimated that the total African Christian community is of the order of 300,000. There are three Roman Catholic missionary organisations in the Colony: the Mill Hill, Consolata, and Holy Ghost Missions. The principal non-Roman organisation are the Africa Inland Mission, the Church Missionary Society, the Methodist Missionary Society, the Church of Scotland Mission, the Society of Friends' Africa Mission, the Bible Churchmen's Missionary Society, the Salvation Army, and the Seventh Day Adventist Mission. In addition to their purely pastoral activities, these church organisations are responsible for large educational systems which range from schools providing, without Government grant, an elementary vernacular education. In association with local and central government, and with varying degrees of grant-in-aid, there is a system of primary education, secondary education, and senior secondary education, successful scholars from the last-named passing on to Makerere College, Uganda. Missions are also responsible for a large share in African teacher training, both for men and women teachers. Missions also conduct hospitals, maternity centres, welfare institutions, and dispensaries, some of which are in receipt of small government grants.

There are organised European congregations, this work being done for the most part by the Anglican and Roman Catholic Churches. The Roman Catholic Church ministers to the Goan community, which is predominantly Roman Catholic, and the non-Roman Churches have a small work among Indians, who otherwise provide for themselves their own mosques and temples.

There is a small immigrant Jewish community which has its headquarters in Nairobi, where a synagogue has been built.

CURRENCY AND BANKING

The standard coin is the East African shilling (silver) with subsidiary coinage of the following denominations: 50 cents (silver) and 10 cents, 5 cents and 1 cent (bronze). A note issue is maintained and notes of the following denominations are in circulation: Shs. 10,000, Shs. 1,000, Shs. 200, Shs. 100, Shs. 20, Shs. 10, Shs. 5 and Shs. 1.

The currency is controlled by the East African Currency Board, London, which replaced the old local Board of Currency Commissioners in 1921. The Board is represented in the East African Territories (Kenya, Uganda, Tanganyika and Zanzibar) by local Currency Officers.

The National Bank of India, Ltd. (Head Office, 26, Bishopsgate, London) are bankers to the Government of Kenya, with branches in the Colony and Protectorate of Kenya at Mombasa, Nairobi, Nakuru and Kisumu and at Kampala, Entebbe and Jinja in the Uganda Protectorate.

The Standard Bank of South Africa, Ltd. (Head Office 10, Clement's Lane, Lombard Street, London) has branches at Mombasa, Nairobi, Eldoret, Nakuru, Kisumu, Nyeri, Nanyuki (as agency to Nyeri) and Kitale in the Colony and Protectorate of Kenya and at Kampala and Jinja in the Uganda Protectorate.

Barclays Bank (Dominions, Colonial and Overseas) with which is amalgamated the National Bank of South Africa, Ltd., has branches at Mombasa, Nairobi, Nakuru, Kitale, Eldoret and Kisumu in the Colony and Protectorate of Kenya and at Kampala and Jinja in the Uganda Protectorate.

COMMUNICATIONS

Steamship Services

The Union Castle Mail Steamship Company and the British India Steam Navigation Co. maintain a monthly service of passenger steamers from and to London. The Union Castle vessels run either via the Cape or Suez.

The Messageries Maritimes from Marseilles to Madagascar call fortnightly at Mombasa, homewards and outwards, but this service is at present suspended.

The Clan Ellerman Harrison Line maintains a three-weekly service of fast cargo steamers from Liverpool; also a service from the U.S.A. and Canada.

The Holland Afrika Line maintains a fortnightly service from London and Continental ports to South and East Africa calling at this port.
India-Africa Line (Andrew Weir & Co.) connect monthly with India and South Africa.

American South African Line (Inc.) connect U.S.A. monthly via South African ports.

Robin Line connect the United States of America monthly via South African ports.

A fortnightly mail service to Bombay and Durban is maintained by the British India Steam Navigation Company’s passenger and cargo steamers. The north bound ships connect at Bombay with the P. & O. mail steamers to England.

A monthly passenger service is maintained with Batavia via southern ports by the Royal Packet Company of Holland.

A monthly cargo service is maintained by the “Silver Java Pacific Line” from America via South African ports to Java and back to America via Pacific.

Communication between the coastal ports of the protectorate is maintained by steamers belonging to the B.I.S.N. Co. and Holland Africa Line.

**Railways, Rivers and Harbours**

The Kenya and Uganda Railway was formerly worked as a State Railway of Kenya Colony, but in 1921 it was decided that from 1st April this line, together with all branch lines and steamer services both in Kenya and Uganda, should be controlled by an Inter-Colonial Railway Council, consisting of a chairman and one official and one unofficial member from each territory (Kenya and Uganda), and that railway surpluses should not be available for general colonial revenue purposes.

On 3rd February, 1926, the Kenya and Uganda (Transport) Order-in-Council, 1925, came into force, by which was established the office of High Commissioner for Transport for the Colony and Protectorate of Kenya and the Protectorate of Uganda. It provided that this office should be held by the Officer administering the Government of Kenya, and that he should have the control of the transport services owned, controlled, or managed, by the governments of either of the two Territories, including railways, ports, wharves and steamships; the services were to be known as the Kenya and Uganda Railway. The Order-in-Council further provided for the constitution of a Kenya and Uganda Railway Advisory Council to consist of not more than two official and two unofficial members representing Kenya, and not more than two official and two unofficial members representing Uganda, each territory’s representatives, official and unofficial, to be appointed by the respective Governors; and it directed that a Railway and Harbour Fund should be formed, into which was to be paid all revenue derived from the administration of the services, and from which all disbursements were to be made.

By an amending Order-in-Council, dated 13th August, 1935, the High Commissioner for Transport now consists of (a) the Officer Administering the Government of Kenya; and (b) the Officer Administering the Government of Uganda acting, save where specifically otherwise provided therein, jointly or in conference.

The length of the line, which is metre gauge, including branches open to traffic at the end of 1946, is 1,625 miles, excluding loops and industrial sidings.

The Railway Marine consists of the Lake Victoria, Lake Kioga, Lake Albert and River Nile flotillas.

Their respective strengths are as follows:

- **Lake Victoria**: 3 steamers, total displacement 3,646 tons.
- 4 tugs and 2 launches.
- 2 motor vessels (Kagera River Ssese Is. and Kavirondo Gulf services).
- 38 lighters, total capacity 4,385 tons.

- **Lake Kioga**: 3 sternwheel steamers, total displacement 468 tons.
- 19 lighters, total capacity 2,219 tons.

- **Lake Albert and River Nile**: 3 steamers, total displacement 1,106 tons.
- 1 motor vessel.
- 1 launch.
- 9 lighters, total capacity 700 tons.

The following figures include all services both in Kenya and Uganda:

- Total expenditure on capital account at the end of 1946. £24,996,086
- Revenue for 1946—
  - Railways ... ... ... £4,346,868
  - Harbours ... ... ... £766,172
- Ordinary working expenditure excluding loan and redemption charges, for 1946—
  - Railways ... ... ... £2,832,565
  - Harbours ... ... ... £399,982
- Number of passengers carried ... 3,005,181
- Goods carried (revenue earning) ... 1,885,424 tons.
- Total steamer mileages (all three services). 234,684

In 1927 the title of the Kenya and Uganda Railway was changed to that of Kenya and Uganda Railways and Harbours, and the Administration assumed control of the working of the port of Mombasa and coastal ports.

The old harbour at Mombasa is now entirely used by dhows. Kilindini harbour, the port of Mombasa, is the finest land-locked and sheltered harbour on the east coast of Africa; it possesses an ample water supply. It has been the scene of intensive development during recent years, and some four million pounds sterling have been expended there. There is now, in addition to the former lighterage quay, a deep-water quay having a length of approximately 4,000 feet, giving seven berths accommodating ocean-going vessels. The quay is served by 26 electric level-luffing cranes and is equipped with seven transit sheds, three of which are double storied. Stacking ground cranes number nine, including three 5-ton mobile cranes. A 10-ton electric quayside crane is available for heavy lifts. Further cranes are being added. Bulk oil from ships is discharged to tanks ashore at a special jetty. Another jetty, formerly owned by the Magadi Soda Co., has been acquired by the port, together with the sheds and conveyors, and this berth is now used for loading commodities other than soda.

A Harbour Advisory Board, set up under the authority of an Order-in-Council enacted in December, 1927, advises the High Commissioner for Transport on port matters.

The principal river flowing into the Indian Ocean is the Tana.

The port of Kilifi consists of a land-locked harbour, 30 miles north-east of Mombasa. It offers good anchorage for small vessels, and opens out into the Bandari Ya Wali, a bay about one-and-a-half miles wide, with shallow anchorage. There is a District Commissioner in residence at Kilifi.
The port of Malindi is an open harbour, 60 miles north-east of Mombasa. Ships of any size can anchor off Malindi, but the anchorage is very exposed to the Monsoons. Cotton, sim sim, and copra are exported. A District Officer resides at Malindi.

About three miles north of Malindi is the mouth of the Sabaki River. This river, which has recently been bridged about a mile from its mouth, passes through a country of great fertility, but is shallow and only navigable by canoes.

The port of Lamu lies between Lamu and Manda Islands, 140 miles north-east of Mombasa. The town of Lamu, the most important coast town north of Mombasa, is situated on Lamu Island. There is a good anchorage for vessels of moderate draught, but the bar carries only 15 feet at low water. The exports are coconuts, copra, rope, mat bags, and some cattle. There is a District Commissioner in residence at Lamu.

Air Services

Airline trunk services are operated in East Africa by B.O.A.C., Air France, Central African Airways and Ethiopian Airlines.

The main airfields are Entebbe, Kisumu, Nairobi (Eastleigh), Tabora and Dar-es-Salaam.

The flying boat service operated by B.O.A.C. calling at Port Bell, Kisumu, Mombasa, Dar-es-Salaam and Lindi has been discontinued but it is expected that a new flying boat service calling at Port Bell or Kisumu only in East Africa will begin in September, 1947.

Feeder services covering Kenya, Uganda, Tanganyika and Zanzibar are operated by East African Airways Corporation and connect the principal towns with the trunk services. Six aircraft are in use at present by the Corporation but a further six are due shortly and in early 1948 D.H. "Dove" type aircraft are expected.

Charter services are operated extensively in East Africa by a number of companies and aircraft are stationed at Nairobi, Dar-es-Salaam and Entebbe. Instructional flying is also undertaken at these places. Thirty-three aircraft are at present available for charter and instructional purposes.

Numerous airfields were closed during the war but steps are in progress to rehabilitate a lot of these. Improvements to make airfields conform to the requirements of modern specifications are in progress.

Air Navigation Services are being increased and staff is being recruited for the Flying Control Services.

Specialists officers are being added to the staff of the Directorate of Civil Aviation in order to advise the Territories on aviation matters.

The Air Services (Licensing) Regulations, 1946, have been published and brought into force.

Roads

There are approximately 16,846 miles of road in Kenya, including all the township roads and dry weather tracks in the Northern Frontier Province and Turkana. These are classified as:

- Bituminous roads: 356 miles
- Gravel or murrum roads: 1,612 miles
- Macadamised roads: 130 miles
- Earth tracks: 14,748 miles

The Great North Road passes through Kenya entering the colony from Tanganyika at Namanga and passing through Nairobi, Nakuru and Kisumu and on to cross the border into Uganda at Busia. Work is now proceeding on this road, a section 75 miles long from Limuru to Nakuru has been bituminised and opened to traffic. Another 18 mile section between Nairobi and Limuru will be completed by the end of December, 1947. Final survey has been completed between Nakuru and Kisumu. The survey of the Kisumu Busia section is to be commenced shortly. The standards adopted for this road are as follows:

Twenty foot bituminised carriageway, with a ruling gradient of five per cent, and a minimum curvature of 500 feet. The bridges are constructed with a clear width of 24 feet and are designed to carry 12 units of the British Standard Loading, type "A".

Three branch roads from this main route have been under construction. Nairobi-Thika Road has been completed and opened to traffic, and the survey for the extension of this road to Nyeri and Nanyuki is well in hand. Lumbwa-Sotik Road has been completed and opened to traffic. Kericho-Muhoroni Road will be completed by the end of 1947. The survey for another branch, 113 miles, has been started from Mau Station to connect Eldoret and Kitale with the Trunk Road System.

Posts and Telegraphs

The Post Office of the Colony (exclusive of Uganda and Tanganyika, which are worked by the Kenya Post Office) received and despatched during 1945, 64,249,100 letters, packets, etc., and 1,880,500 telegrams.

The telegraph and telephone system has 28,486 miles of wire (exclusive of Uganda and Tanganyika). The lines connect Mombasa with Lamu (171 miles), Kipini with Witu (12 miles), Mombasa to Tanganyika border (60 miles), Mombasa with Nairobi (334 miles), Voi to Tanganyika border (80 miles), Konza with Magadi (91 miles), Konza with Machakos (18 miles), Nairobi with Thika (35 miles), Thika with Makuyu (22 miles), Makuyu with Nyeri Post Office (60 miles), Nyeri Post Office with Nanyuki (38 miles), Nanyuki with Isiolo (71 miles), Nairobi with Kiambu (14 miles), Nairobi with Kijabe (43 miles), Kijabe with Narok (61 miles), Kijabe with Gilgil (39 miles), Gilgil with Thomson's Falls (46 miles), Thomson's Falls with Rimuruti (22 miles), Gilgil with Nakuru (38 miles), Nakuru with Nakuru Junction (5 miles), Nakuru Junction with Kisumu (122 miles), Kisumu with Kakamega (23 miles), Lumbwa with Kericho (21 miles), Kericho with Chemagei (32 miles), Kericho with Kisii (64 miles), Muhoroni with Songhor (10 miles), Kibigori with Eldoret (54 miles), Kisumu to Uganda border (86 miles), Nakuru Junction with Eldoret (119 miles), Rongai with Lake Solai (27 miles), Maji Mazuri with Eldama Ravine (6 miles), Eldoret with Moiben (25 miles), Eldoret to Uganda border (100 miles), Leseru with Kitale (42 miles), Kitale with Endebess (11 miles), Kitale with Kiminini (12 miles).

Lines also follow all railway routes.

Telegraph communication exists with Uganda and Tanganyika Territory. The Kenya telegraph system is also linked up via the Tanganyika Territory, Nyasaland and Rhodesia systems with the South African service. Communication with the Belgian Congo is maintained through Uganda, with which the Belgian Congo system is linked up.

Radio telegraph stations are operated by the Posts and Telegraphs Department at Nairobi, Isiolo, Marsabit, Moyale, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa, Lodwar, Lokitaung, Kitui, Embu, Kabarnet, Maralal, Lamu and Mombasa.
Aeradio stations with direction-finding facilities are maintained by Cable and Wireless, Ltd., at Nairobi and by the Posts and Telegraphs Department at Kisumu and Mombasa.

Communication between Mombasa and ships at sea is maintained by means of radiotelegraphy operated by Cable and Wireless, Ltd. This company's cable connects Mombasa with Zanzibar whence communication is maintained through its system with all parts of the world.

The Company also owns and operates, under licence, the broadcasting station VQ.7 L.O. at Nairobi which transmits simultaneously on five frequencies (wavelengths) of 810 kc/s (370-4 m.) ; 857 kc/s (350-1 m.) ; 4,950 kc/s (60-61 m.) and 6,060 kc/s (49-4 m.).

Maximum word rates for telegrams to Great Britain and all parts of the Empire are : full rate, 1 shilling 25 cents ; C.D.E. 85 cents (five words minimum) ; deferred 63 cents (five words minimum) ; letter telegrams 42 cents (25 words minimum) ; Empire social telegrams 42 cents (13 words minimum).

Telephone exchanges or call offices are established at Athi River, Elburgon, Eldama Ravine, Eldoret, Elgon (Central), Endeless, Gazi, Gilgil, Hoey's Bridge, Isiolo, Kabete, Kakamega, Kericho, Kiambu, Kijabe, Kikuyu, Kilifi, Kiminini, Kipini, Kissii, Kisumu, Kitale, Koru, Kwale, Lamu, Limuru, Litein, Londiani, Lumbwa Machakos, Maji Mazuri, Makuyu, Malindi, Mau Summit, Meru, Mitubiri, M'kunumbi, Moiben, Molo, Mombasa, Muhoroni, Nairobi, Naivasha, Nakuru, Nanyuki, Narok, Ngong, Njoro, Nyeri, Nyeri Station, Rongai, Ruiru, Sabatia, Songhor, Sotik, Soy, Subukia, Takaungu, Thika, Timau, Thomson's Falls, Turbo, Turi, Ukanda and Witu. Trunk lines also connect the main exchanges of Kenya, Uganda and Tanganyika. In addition a radio telephone service exists between Great Britain and the main telephone exchanges in Kenya.

Seven thousand two hundred and fifty-five telephones were in use in Kenya at the end of 1946.

There are regular air mail services between the colony and Great Britain and between the Colony and South Africa and intermediate countries. There are connections at Cairo for services to and from India, Australia and Far East countries and via Great Britain for European countries and America.

SOCIAL SERVICES

Education

Schools for Europeans, Indians, Goans, Arabs and Africans exist in all the principal centres in the colony.

Education is compulsory for European and Indian children between the ages of 7 and 15 years, with the exception that in the case of the latter this only applies to the larger centres.

There are two Government European secondary schools in Nairobi, one for boys and one for girls. These cater for both day scholars and boarders.

Eight Government European primary schools exist, of which four have boarding sections for both boys and girls and one for boys only.

There are also a number of private preparatory and other schools.

For Indians there are 14 Government schools in the towns and larger townships; both primary and secondary education is provided. There are also 62 private schools of which 42 are assisted by grants-in-aid.

In Mombasa there is a combined Government primary and secondary school for Arab boys and also a Government girls school.

The academic education of Africans is organised in two stages: primary and secondary. Primary schools are mostly administered by missions, some being aided by Local Native Councils.

Government maintains 14 African secondary schools and gives financial aid to 35 mission schools. Government also aids 34 African girls' schools.

After the full secondary school course a system of Government bursaries enables suitable students to go to Makerere College in Uganda for further academic education and professional training.

Education fees are as follows:

(a) Schools for European children.

| Tuition | Per term |
|---------|----------|
| Pupils in classes up to and including sixth standard | Sh. 30 |
| Pupils in classes above the sixth standard | Sh. 100 |

(b) Schools for Indian Children.

| Tuition | Per term |
|---------|----------|
| Pupils in classes sub-standard A and B | Sh. 6 |
| Pupils in standards I and II | Sh. 12 |
| Pupils in standards III and IV | Sh. 18 |
| Pupils in standards V and VI | Sh. 24 |
| Pupils above standard VI | Sh. 45 |

Hospital and Health Services

The health services of the colony and protectorate are maintained by various agencies. The Government Medical Department operates the great majority of hospitals providing facilities for all races, with the exceptions mentioned later.

The Medical Department is responsible for the control and maintenance of all native hospitals whether in townships or native reserves. In the reserves contributions are made by the local native councils towards the capital and recurrent costs of maternity wards and of dispensaries; and a similar principle is adopted in townships by contributions from local native trust funds. Municipal authorities also provide and manage health clinics and, in some cases, maternity hospitals.

There are Government European hospitals at Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu. Including the accommodation at Mathari Mental Hospital, Nairobi, 100 European beds are provided. European hospitals are also maintained under local insurance schemes at Nakuru, Eldoret and Kitale. However, Government has now introduced a compulsory contributory scheme for the purpose of reducing costs for hospital maintenance, within which hospitals provided by local initiative may elect to operate in future.

There are three European private nursing homes in Nairobi in addition.

At native hospitals throughout the reserves and settled areas, 4,085 beds, including general and maternity beds, are now provided.

Non-personal health services, including personal health services, are the sole concern of Government, except in the larger towns, where they are administered by local authorities. But in th
reserves, Local Native Councils again show great interest in these services and provide much material assistance.

Government maintains the Medical Research Laboratory in Nairobi, where research work and routine work is carried out and vaccines are manufactured, and also a Government Chemist's Department.

Labour Services

The Labour Department was reorganised and expanded at the beginning of 1946 and is responsible for the inspection of the conditions of labour and the administration of the labour laws of the colony. Labour officers are posted in most of the important labour centres and, in addition to their inspectorate duties, intervene when required in cases of labour difficulties or disputes. The laws of the colony in consonance with international conventions provide for certain minimum conditions under which workers may be employed.

At 28th November, 1946, 248,135 men were employed on monthly contract and in addition 5,000 were employed in the military. In addition, some 41,500 families were residing on farms under contract, the adult males of which work for the farm occupiers for a limited period in each year. Up to 21,000 men, women and juveniles were also at times employed as daily paid casual labourers.

Further information with regard to labour services can be obtained from the annual reports of the Labour Department and the Handbook of the Labour Laws, price Shs. 2, both obtainable from the Government Printer.

| Year | Revenue | Expenditure |
|------|---------|-------------|
| 1936 | £3,496,389 | £3,350,381 |
| 1937 | £3,667,394 | £3,565,976 |
| 1938 | £3,776,030 | £3,876,952 |
| 1939 | £3,811,778 | £3,808,079 |
| 1940 | £4,111,412 | £4,064,465 |
| 1941 | £5,348,888 | £4,511,275 |
| 1942 | £5,595,025 | £5,341,551 |
| 1943 | £6,801,860 | £6,782,467 |
| 1944 | £7,734,333 | £7,629,088 |
| 1945 | £8,034,196 | £7,815,928 |
| 1946 | £9,057,390 | £8,795,237 |

Public debt £18,180,600

The following were the chief sources of revenue for 1945:

- Customs and excise: £2,256,139
- Licences and taxes: £2,361,499
- Fees and payments for specific services: £252,525
- Posts and telegraphs: £40,451
- Earnings of Government Departments: £239,437
- Revenue from Government property: £89,339
- Sale of Government property: £107,736
- Forest Department revenue: £156,323

Land and Products

With altitudes varying from sea level to over 9,000 feet, Kenya lends itself for the production of a wide range of crops. In the areas above 5,000 feet coffee, tea, maize, wattle bark, pyrethrum and wheat are the principal crops. At the lower altitudes sisal, cotton and oilseeds are most important. Other crops grown in various parts of the colony include beans, potatoes, sorghums, millets, pulses, coconuts, cashew nuts, sugar cane, vegetables, fruit and essential oil plants.

Beef production, dairying, sheep and pigs form an increasingly important role in the general agricultural policy of the colony and considerable quantities of meat, butter, hides and skin, wool and bacon are produced annually.

The local market is well supplied with the main food staples and also with a tempting variety of specialities of local production and preparations.

With the large number of personnel of the armed forces stationed in the colony throughout the war the internal consumption of all agricultural commodities has increased considerably but in spite of this factor the export trade in agricultural and pastoral products reached a total of £3,463,000 in 1944 as compared with 3,200,629 in 1937.

Fishing is carried on both on the coast and on Lake Victoria, and an adequate supply is obtained for local consumption.

The forest products of the colony have played an important part in meeting the heavy demands of the armed forces during the war. On the coast mangrove poles and bark, timber, ebony and gum copal are the main products. In the highland forests are found large quantities of pencil cedar and several other good timbers such as podocarpus, olive and East African camphor, also large areas of bamboos suitable for the manufacture of high quality paper pulp.

The following minerals have been located:

- **Gold.**—Has been found throughout the Nyanza Province and in the Lolgorien district of the Masai reserve. Traces of gold have been found in various areas occupied by Basement System rocks.
- **Silver.**—Is commonly associated with gold in Nyanza and also occurs in galena ores in the Coast Province.
- **Amblygonite.**—Has been found sporadically in pegmatites in Basement System areas.
- **Apatite.**—Has been located in small concentrations near Homa Bay in Southern Kavirondo.
- **Arsenopyrite.**—Is commonly associated with the gold mineralisation of Nyanza.
- **Asbestos.**—Of anthophyllite type occurs in Basement System rocks and is worked in Machakos and West Suk.
- **Barytes.**—Of good quality is found in association with lead and zinc ores in the Coast Province.
- **Beryl.**—Small amounts have been found in pegmatites particularly in Machakos.
- **Clays.**—Of meta-bentonite type have been found at Athi River, near Nairobi, and north of Mount Kenya. Ceramics clays are known in the Central and Coast Provinces.
- **Columbite.**—Sporadic occurrences of columbite-tantalite have been found in Basement System pegmatites.
- **Copper.**—Impregnations occur in association with pegmatites in the Tsavo area. Promising gold-copper deposits are being developed in Southern Kavirondo (Nyanza Province).
- **Corundum.**—Occurs in association with a dunitic intrusion near Mtito Andei (Machakos).
- **Diatomite.**—Is widespread in Pleistocene lake beds in the Rift Valley. Five large deposits are known that are estimated to contain extensive reserves of the material.
- **Felspar.**—Suitable for ceramic purposes is found in pegmatites in Central Province.
Galena.—Occurs in a barytes-base metal vein in the Coast Province and is also known as thin veins in sandstones near Mazeras (also in the Coast Province).

Graphite.—Occurs in Basement System gneisses and schists, and is best known in the Machakos, Southern Kitui and Tsavo areas.

Gypsum.—Is found in the Northern Frontier District especially near El-Wak and Garissa.

Ilmenite.—Is widespread in areas of Basement System rocks.

Iron.—Magnetite and magnetite-haematite quartzites occur in the Basement System and form a possible source of ore for future requirements. Gossans and pyritic ore bodies in the goldfields of Nyanza are an additional possible source.

Kyanite.—Is found in the Machakos area and sometimes occurs in fine crystals that have been at times cut as gems. Extensive deposits of massive and unusually pure kyanite are being worked in the Taveta area (Coast Province).

Limestone.—Coral and other limestones are abundant in the Coast Province, and enormous quantities of crystalline limestone are available in Basement System areas, notably near Voi, Kajiado, Machakos, the Loldaika hills, Elgeyo and Suk. Lacustrine limestones are worked near Muhoroni and Homa Bay in Western Kenya. Extensive deposits of limestone of carbonatite type are also known in the Homa Bay area.

Manganese.—Occurs in the Coast Province, and small deposits have been located in the Central and Rift Valley Provinces.

Magnesite.—Has been exploited near Mtito Andei (Machakos). Other deposits are known in the northern frontier district.

Marble.—Is being exploited near Kajiado.

Mica.—Of sheet type occurs in pegmatites, and has been worked in Central Province and West Suk.

Molybdenite.—Traces have been found in Northern Kavirondo and near Maralal.

Monazite.—Is found in coastal beach sands.

Olivine.—Is concentrated in rivers draining from the Aberdares, and constitutes the bulk of a dunite intrusion near Mtito Andei.

Pigments.—Mineral pigments yielding yellow, chrome, brown, red and green colours are being worked in Kitui. Green pigments are obtained in Turkana.

Pumice.—Occurs in the Rift Valley Province near Naivasha.

Pyrite.—Massive pyrite-pyrrhotite bodies have been located by diamond drilling in the Kakamega area, and pyrite veins occur on a copper-gold property in South Kavirondo.

Quartz.—Of optical and piezo-electrical quality has been found in Central Province.

Quicksilver.—In the form of cinnabar has been found in the Coast Province.

Rutile.—Is present in coastal sands.

Sapphire.—The corundum deposit at Mtito Andei has yielded small fragments of gem sapphire.

Silimanite.—Schists have been discovered in the Machakos and Maralal areas, and in the Northern Frontier District.

Soapstone.—Extensive deposits are known in Southern Kavirondo.

Soda.—Is being extracted in large quantities from Lake Magadi by the Magadi Soda Company.

Talc.—Deposits have been found in the Machakos and West Suk districts.

Tin.—Traces of tin occur in Trans-Nzoia, and cassiterite is an accessory mineral in the Kisii sandstones.

Tungsten.—Scheelite has been found as an accessory mineral in gold-quartz veins in central Kavirondo.

Vermiculite.—Deposits have been found at various localities in the Central Province and Masai district, and in West Suk.

Zinc Blende.—Is present in a barytes-galena vein in the Coast Province.

Zircon.—Is an abundant constituent of river sands in Nyanza and the Coast Province.

TRADE, CUSTOMS AND EXCISE

Under the terms of the Congo Basin Treaties equality of treatment in respect of imported goods irrespective of origin is ensured, and the grant of Imperial Preference is therefore inadmissible. Goods declared as in transit are allowed to be imported and forwarded under customs control on payment of expenses of administration (6d. per package).

For purposes of customs, Kenya and Uganda form a single unit and by agreement with the Tanganyika Territory Government a common tariff has been accepted by the three territories, the free and unrestricted movement within the territories of both imported goods and local products being thus secured. The common tariff, however, includes a small number of "suspended duties" which are of a protective nature and may be imposed by proclamation either in part or in full in any or all of the territories.

The general duty rating under the common tariff is 22 per cent. ad valorem, based on the landed value at the port of entry, building materials, artisans' tools, and vehicles and parts being admitted at lower ratings. Specific duties are imposed on such articles as readily lend themselves to this form of assessment and in certain cases alternative specific or ad valorem charges are levied. Exemption from duty is allowed on drugs and medicines, packing materials, disinfectants, germicides and vermin killers, machinery, and many articles necessary for road construction, sanitation, irrigation and drainage purposes, and for the agricultural, industrial, and educational development of the territories.

For Kenya and Uganda, the value of trade imports (excluding imports on Government account, railway material and goods in transit and transhipment) and of exports (domestic and foreign) and the net amount of customs receipts from all sources and the tonnage entered at Kenya ports, were as follows:

| Years | Trade Imports | Trade Exports |
|-------|---------------|--------------|
| 1939  | £7,661,020    | £10,750,666  |
| 1940  | £10,456,690   | £11,965,650  |
| 1941  | £13,887,581   | £13,964,862  |
| 1942  | £12,995,961   | £14,035,440  |
| 1943  | £12,904,974   | £13,824,195  |
| 1944  | £13,946,486   | £16,086,385  |
| 1945  | £13,029,748   | £19,224,923  |
| 1946  | £20,326,471   | £20,594,311  |
In 1946 the main imports into Kenya and Uganda were: grain and flour, £47,452; beer, wines and spirits, £296,011; cigarettes, cigars and tobacco, £497,404; coal, £570,386; cement, £289,341; iron sheets (galvanised and corrugated), £55,716; tools and implements, £237,159; electrical goods and apparatus, £359,410; machinery, £1,131,146; cotton piece goods and manufactures, £4,541,108; woollen and worsted yarns and manufactures, £296,699; silk and artificial silk tissues and manufactures, £364,019; jute bags and sacks, £479,771; haberdashery and wearing apparel, £736,483; chemicals, drugs, dyes, paints and colours, £749,768; fuel oil, £590,508; lubricating oils and greases, £256,586; motor spirit, £888,274; mineral oil, illuminating or burning, £213,522; stationery and other paper manufactures, £571,033; motor cars, parts and accessories, £485,620; motor lorries, tractors, parts and accessories, £453,487; tyres and tubes for vehicles, £735,310.

The principal countries of origin were: United Kingdom, 38·5 per cent.; British possessions, 36·6 per cent. (total British Empire, 75·1 per cent.); Persia, 5·5 per cent.; United States of America, 12·3 per cent.; Italy, 2·2 per cent.; other foreign countries, 4·9 per cent. (total foreign countries, 24·9 per cent.).

The principal domestic exports of Kenya and Uganda during 1946 were: coffee, £2,748,408; sugar, £218,213; tea, £620,301; cigarettes, £769,635; tin ore (Uganda), £53,255; cotton and cotton seed (mainly Uganda), £5,766,138; sisal, fibre and tow, £898,266; hides and skins, £674,346; wattle bark and extract, £331,485; ivory (elephant), £104,318; pyrethrum, £1,157,228; wool, £30,156; gold bullion, £287,047.

The chief countries of destination were: United Kingdom, 28 per cent.; British possessions, 57 per cent. (total British Empire, 85 per cent.); United States of America, 8 per cent.; other foreign countries, 7 per cent. (total foreign countries, 15 per cent.).

Full particulars are available in the Annual Trade Report of Kenya and Uganda.

GOVERNORS

1909 Colonel Sir E. P. Girouard, K.C.M.G., D.S.O., R.E.
1912 Sir H. C. Belfield, K.C.M.G.
1919 Major-General Sir E. Northey, K.C.M.G., C.B.
1922 Sir R. T. Coryndon, K.C.M.G.
1925 Lt.-Col. Sir E. W. M. Grigg, K.C.M.G., K.C.V.O., D.S.O., M.C.
1931 Brig.-Gen. Sir Joseph A. Byrne, G.C.M.G., K.B.E., C.B.
1937 Air Chief Marshal Sir Robert Brooke-Popham, G.C.V.O., K.C.B., C.M.G., D.S.O.
1940 Sir Henry Moore, K.C.M.G.
1944 Sir P. E. Mitchell, G.C.M.G., M.C.

Tonnage Entered. (Net Tonnage.)

| Years | Customs Receipts | £ |
|-------|-----------------|---|
| 1939  | 1,310,580       | 2,116,540 |
| 1940  | 1,502,666       | 2,239,490 |
| 1941  | 1,933,998       | 2,816,127 |
| 1942  | 1,395,614       | 2,894,893 |
| 1943  | 1,631,677       | 2,142,278 |
| 1944  | 2,288,174       | 2,359,407 |
| 1945  | 2,244,159       | 1,772,014 |
| 1946  | 3,690,005       | 2,274,809 |

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL

The Governor.
The Chief Secretary (Member for Development and Reconstruction).
The Attorney General (Member for Law and Order).
The Financial Secretary (Member for Finance).
The Chief Native Commissioner.
Major F. W. Cavendish-Bentinck, C.M.G. (Member for Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Natural Resources).
C. E. Mortimer, C.B.E. (Member for Health and Local Government).

The Deputy Chief Secretary.
Sir Alfred Vincent.
Major F. H. de V. Joyce, M.C.
Archdeacon L. J. Beecher.
A. B. Patel.

LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL

President
The Governor—Sir P. E. Mitchell, G.C.M.G., M.C.

Ex-officio Members
Chief Secretary—J. D. Rankine, C.M.G.
Attorney General—S. W. P. Foster Sutton, C.M.G., O.B.E., K.C.
Financial Secretary—J. F. G. Troughton, M.B.E.
Chief Native Commissioner—P. Wyn Harris M.B.E.
Director of Medical Services—Dr. N. M. MacLennan.
Director of Agriculture—D. L. Blunt, C.M.G.
Director of Education—R. Patrick, E.D.
General Manager, K.U.R.H.—Sir R. E. Robins, C.M.G., O.B.E.
Director of Public Works—S. R. Boyd.
Commissioner of Customs—W. Johnston.
Commissioner of Lands, Mines and Surveys—G. J. Robbins.

Nominated Official Members
F. W. Carpenter (Labour Commissioner, Acting).
Major F. W. Cavendish-Bentinck, C.M.G. (Member for Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Natural Resources).
Mbarak Ali Hinawy, O.B.E. (Specially appointed to represent Interests of Arab Community).
J. B. Hobson (Solicitor General).
A. Hope-Jones (Economic and Commercial Adviser).
W. K. Horne.
C. E. Mortimer, C.B.E. (Member for Health and Local Government).
J. C. Mundy, C.M.G. (Commissioner for Inland Revenue).
C. H. Thornley (Deputy Chief Secretary).

European Elected Members
W. A. C. Bouwer (Uasin Gishu).
S. V. Cooke (Coast).
G. M. Edye (Nyanza).
Maj. F. H. de V. Joyce, M.C. (Ukamba).
Maj. A. G. Keyser, D.S.O. (Trans Nzoia).
W. G. D. H. Nicol (Mombasa).
W. F. O. Trench (Rift Valley).
E. M. Vasey, C.M.G. (Nairobi North).
Sir Alfred Vincent (Nairobi South).
H. Wright (Aberdare).

Indian Elected Members
A. R. Cocker } (Central Area).
S. T. Thakore }
A. B. Patel
Dr. M. A. Rana, M.B.E. } (Eastern Area).
A. Pritam (Western Area).
Arab Elected Member
Sheriff Abdulla Salim.

Nominated Unofficial Members.
E. W. Mathu (Representing the Interests of the African Community).
B. A. Ohanga (Representing the Interests of the African Community).

Acting Clerk to Council—W. Padley, O.B.E.

REPRESENTATIVES OF RELIGIOUS BODIES
Anglican Church—The Rt. Rev. R. P. Crabbe (Bishop of Mombasa) (P.O. Box 502, Nairobi).
Church of Scotland—The Rev. R. G. M. Calderwood (Moderator) (P.O., Kikuyu).
Roman Catholic—Telephone 2360 for details.
Jewish—The Rev. the Rabbi, Vermont Memorial Hall, Nairobi.
Salvation Army—Colonel Sansom, Salvation Army Headquarters, Nairobi.

FOREIGN CONSULAR OFFICERS
Belgium—M. de Vlieger (Consul General, Nairobi); M. A. Pelt (Consul for the Netherlands), deals with Belgian Consular affairs at Mombasa.
China—The care of Chinese affairs is temporarily under the jurisdiction of Mr. Shih Chao-Ying (Consul General at Johannesburg).
Czechoslovakia—The Consular District of Mr. Karel Vanek (Consul General of Czechoslovakia in London), includes all Colonies, Protectorates and Mandated Territories; Dr. E. Lowenstein (Consul, Nairobi) (P.O. Box 296).
Denmark—P. E. Andersen (Royal Danish Consul, Nairobi) (Box 412); Mr. Ole Beyer (Vice-Consul); Major W. Read, M.C., is in charge of Danish Consular Affairs in Mombasa (Dalgety and Co.).
France—Mons. Amedee Beaulieux (Consul, Nairobi); Mons. Roux (Vice-Consul); Mons. Paul Benazeth (Consular Agent, Mombasa).
Finland—Finnish Political Representative, London.
Greece—N. Georgiadis (Hon. Greek Consul for Uganda and Kenya, residing Kampala, Uganda).
Italy—Count Renato Della Chiesa D’Isasca (Italian Government Representative, Hove Court Hotel, Nairobi).
Netherlands—M. A. Pelt (Hon. Consul, Mombasa).
Norway—Mr. Wm. Reginald Hessett Austin (Hon. Consul, Mombasa).
Poland—Mr. Joseph Gruga advises the Director of Aliens and Internes on Polish Consular Affairs.
Portugal—Senhor Jose Leopoldo Lopes de Neiva (at present Acting Consul at Nairobi); Senhor Reginaldo Xavier Jorge Dias (Consul, Mombasa).
Sweden—A. E. H. Bursell (Hon. Vice-Consul, Nairobi) (Box 485); Swedish Consul General (Pretoria).
Switzerland—H. Tanner (Consul, Tanga) (Box 102); W. Diener (Chancellor, Tanga); Ernest Belart (Swiss Consular Agent, Nairobi) (Court Chambers).
Turkey—The Consular District of Mons. Basri Rizan (Consul General of Greece, London) includes all Colonies, Protectorates and Mandated Territories (excepting Cyprus and Palestine).

United States of America—Joseph Touchette (Consul, Nairobi); Robert B. Houghton (Vice-Consul, Nairobi); Elmer Emerson Yelton (Vice-Consul, Nairobi); Mr. L. Armstrong (Vice-Consul, Mombasa).
Union of South Africa—Col. R. Campbell-Ross, D.S.O., O.B.E. (Commissioner) (P.O. Box 624, Nairobi).

BIBLIOGRAPHY
Travels, Researches and Missionary Labours during an Eighteen Years’ Residence in Eastern Africa, by J. Lewis Krapf. Kegan Paul, 1860.
Through Masai Land (being the narrative of the Royal Geographical Society’s expedition to Mount Kenya and Lake Victoria, 1883-1884), by James Thomson. Sampson Low, 1885.
The Rise of our East African Empire, by Lord Lugard. Blackwood, 1893.
British East Africa, or Ibea : Work of the Imperial British East Africa Company, by P. L. McDermott. Chapman and Hall, 1893, 6s.
The East African Protectorate, by Sir Charles Eliot. Arnold, 1905, 15s.
The Nandi : Their Language and Folk-lore, by A. C. Hollis. Clarendon Press (Frowde), 1909, 16s.
Ethnology of the A. Kamha and other East African Tribes, by C. W. Hobley. C.U.P., 1909, 7s. 6d.
The Masai : Their Language and Folk-lore, by A. C. Hollis. O.U.P., 1911.
The Rift Valleys and Geology of East Africa, by J. W. Gregory. Seeley Service, 1921, 32s.
The Dual Mandate in British Tropical Africa, by Lord Lugard. Blackwood, 1929, 42s.
Kenya : from Chartered Company to Crown Colony, by C. W. Hobley. Witherby, 1929, 16s.
The East African Problem, by J. H. Driberg. Williams & Norgate, 1930, 2s. 6d.
Early Days in East Africa, by Sir Frederick Jackson. Arnold, 1930, 21s.
The Akikuyu : Their Customs, Traditions and Folk-lore, by C. Cagnolo. Nyeri, Mission Printing School, 1933.
The African Labourer, by G. St. J. Orde Brown. O.U.P., 1933, 15s.
Science in Africa : A Review of Scientific Research Relating to Tropical and Southern Africa, by E. B. Worthington. O.U.P., 1938, 10s. 6d.
Kenya Chronicles, by Lord Cranworth. Macmillan, 1939, 16s.
Race and Politics in Kenya, by E. Huxley and M. Perham. Faber, 1944, 12s. 6d.
An African Survey : A Study of Problems Arising in Africa South of the Sahara, by Lord Hailey. O.U.P., 1946, 30s.
The Social Institutions of the Kipsigis, by J. G. Parisitiany.
THE LEEWARD ISLANDS

Situation and Area

The colony of the Leeward Islands, with a total area of 422 square miles, consists of a number of islands belonging partly to the chain of the Lesser Antilles and partly (the Virgin Islands group) to the eastern extremity of the Greater Antilles. The islands of Antigua, Barbuda, St. Christopher (St. Kitts), Nevis and Montserrat form a fairly compact group between the 61st and 63rd degree of west longitude and around the 17th degree of north latitude; but Anguilla, Sombrero, and still more the Virgins group (Tortola, Virgin Gorda, Anegada, etc.), lie apart to the north and north-west.

St. Kitts, Nevis and Montserrat form part of the volcanic chain of the Lesser Antilles, whilst Antigua and Barbuda form part of the eastern sedimentary series of the same chain.

Politically the colony is divided into four Presidencies:—Antigua (with Barbuda), St. Christopher and Nevis (with Anguilla), Montserrat and the Virgin Islands. These have been united and separated at various times in their history, and were finally federated in 1871 by Imperial Act 34 and 35 Vict., cap. 107. Sombrero was added to the colony by Order-in-Council under the Colonial Boundaries Act on the 10th August, 1904, being attached to the Virgin Islands Presidency, and later transferred to St. Christopher and Nevis.

On 1st January, 1940, Dominica, which had been a presidency of the colony of the Leeward Islands, was separated and became a colony of the Windward Islands.

Climate

The climate of the islands varies, but is usually dry and fairly healthy. Antigua is subject to drought, and has an average rainfall of about 45 inches; St. Kitts, Nevis and Montserrat have average rainfalls of from 50 to 60 inches. The mean temperature is about 80°, with but a slight range. The Virgin Islands are cooler. The hot season is from May to October; the rainy season from August to January.

History

The islands were discovered by Columbus on his second voyage, in 1493, and became British during the 17th century. Particulars of their subsequent history will be found in the separate articles, but it may here be mentioned that they have been from the first associated politically as well as geographically. They were all colonised from St. Kitts as centre, all included in the Carlisle grant, and possessed a common Legislature as far back as the reign of William and Mary. The General Legislature met for the last time in 1798, when it passed a highly humane slave amelioration Act, which was allowed; a Catholic Emancipation Act, and an Act repealing the duty on exports of 4½ per cent. for the benefit of the English exchequer—both of which were disallowed. An attempt was made by Sir William Colebrook in 1837 to revive the General Legislature, and though the attempt was regarded unfavourably in some quarters, and the Legislature never actually met, yet the right to revive it was clear, and there is no doubt that the Act of 1871, the passing of which was largely due to the energy and activity of Sir Benjamin Pine, is no more than a revival of the ancient constitution of the islands. The Presidencies of St. Kitts and Nevis, with Anguilla and their respective dependencies, were united into one Presidency by the Federal Act No. 2 of 1882.

Constitution

By "The Leeward Islands Act, 1871" one Executive Council and a legislative body styled "The General Legislative Council," under one Governor, were constituted for the five (now four) presidencies. The General Legislative Council consists of nine official members and nine unofficial members. Of the unofficial members three are elected from among the Island Council of Antigua, three from the Island Council of St. Christopher and Nevis, one of whom shall at the time of election be resident in Nevis, and two from the Island Council of Montserrat. These members must be and continue to be members of their respective island councils and are elected to the General Legislative Council for a period of three years. As there is no island council in the Virgin Islands, an unofficial member is appointed by the Governor, under Section 9 of the Leeward Islands Act, to represent that Presidency, but whenever such an appointment is made the Governor must under the provisions of the said section, appoint a person holding office under the Government of the Colony, and approved by the Secretary of State, to be an official member of the said Council. The official members are the Governor, the person for the time being performing the duties of Colonial Secretary, the holder of the substantive appointment of Administrator of Antigua, the holder of the substantive appointment of Administrator of St. Christopher and Nevis, the person for the time being lawfully performing the duties of Attorney General, the holder of the substantive appointment of Commissioner of Montserrat, the holder of the substantive appointment of Commissioner of the Virgin Islands, and the person for the time being lawfully performing the duties of Federal Treasurer.

The Legislative Council has concurrent legislative powers with the local legislatures on certain subjects specified in the Act, such as matters of property, mercantile and criminal law, air, the law relating to status, the maintenance of a general police force and a common convict establishment, quarantine, postal and telegraph affairs, currency, audit, weights and measures, education, and the care of lunatics, all matters relating to immigration, copyright and patents, and its own constitution and procedure. Any island legislature is, in addition, competent to declare other matters to be within the competency of the general legislature. Any island enactment on such subjects is void if repugnant to an enactment of the general legislature, or may at any time be repealed or altered by one.

The Council meets at least once a year, at a place notified by proclamation, and no Council lasts more than three years. The session usually lasts for about one week.

The expenses of the federal establishments are voted by the Council, and apportioned among the Presidencies.

The Council has power to alter its constitution by an ordinary act, to be reserved for the King's pleasure, and the King has power, by Order-in-Council, at any time to include any other West Indian Island in the federation, upon joint addresses from the legislative body of such island, and from the Council, on such terms and conditions in each case as are in the addresses expressed. This
power has not actually been exercised, and the inclusion in the Colony of Sombrero, which had no legislative body, was effected as above mentioned under a different act. Constitutional changes involving the electoral principle with unofficial majorities in the Presidential Councils came into being in 1937.

Antigua is the seat of government of the Leeward Islands and the residence of the Governor.

**Population**

The total population at the 1946 census was 108,000, being a decrease of 14,242 on that of 1921. The estimated population on 31st December, 1946, was 108,500.

**Currency and Banking**

The usual currency is British silver, a few British and United States gold coins being occasionally met with. Barclays Bank (Dominion, Colonial and Overseas), Ltd., and the Royal Bank of Canada have branches in Antigua and St. Kitts, and the latter bank has a branch in Montserrat. In Nevis and the Virgin Islands there are no banks.

Government savings banks have been established in all the Presidencies.

| Total Deposits on 31st December, 1946. | Number of Depositors on 31st December, 1946. |
|---------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------|
| Antigua                               | £121,900                                    |
| St. Kitts and Nevis                   | 50,000                                      |
| Montserrat                             | 27,800                                      |
| Virgin Islands                        | 5,000                                       |
| **Total**                             | **£204,700**                                |

**Means of Communication**

**Sea**

The following steamship lines serve the Colony:

- Canadian National Steamships (from Canada) proceeding to Windward Islands, Barbados, Trinidad and British Guiana and return.
- The Alcoa Steamship Co., about once every two weeks from Canada call at St. Kitts, Antigua and Montserrat, proceeding to French West Indies, Windward Islands, Barbados, Trinidad, etc.
- Infrequent opportunities for travel between the colony and the United Kingdom occur when Harrison Line steamers call at Antigua and St. Kitts to load sugar, and at Montserrat to load cotton.

**Air**

An air mail service operated by Pan American Airways calls daily at Antigua from Miami (U.S.A.) via Cuba, Haiti, Santo Domingo and Porto Rico, proceeding to Trinidad, Georgetown (British Guiana) and Paramaribo (Dutch Guiana) and returns, also daily, in the opposite direction.

An air mail service operated by British West Indian Airways (from Trinidad, Barbados and Jamaica) calls at Antigua and St. Kitts four times weekly.

**Posts and Telegraphs**

Mails with Great Britain are exchanged via New York, occasionally via Barbados, and sometimes direct from Antigua, and direct with Canada, the United States and the British West Indies. Mails are also exchanged by air with the places served by the Pan American Airways and British West Indian Airways, and with Great Britain and Canada via Miami, U.S.A.

There are 46 post offices in the colony and the rates of postage are as follows:

- **Inland**—Letters, 1d. for the first 2 oz., ½d. per additional 2 oz.; post cards, ½d.
- **British Empire, Egypt and Tangier**.—Letters, 2d. for the first oz., 1d. per additional oz.; post cards, 1d.
- **Other Places**.—Letters, 3d. for the first oz., 1½d. per additional oz.; post cards, 1d.
- **All Places**.—Printed matter, ¼d. per 2 oz.; “small packets,” 5d. up to 10 oz.; 1d. for every additional 2 oz.

Parcel post despatches are exchanged with Great Britain via Barbados, Canada and New York and direct with Canada, the United States and British West Indies, Bermuda, British Guiana, Guadeloupe and dependencies, and the Dutch West Indies, and via London or New York to other countries.

British Imperial postal orders are issued and paid in the colony and money orders are exchanged direct with Great Britain, Canada, the United States and British West Indian colonies.

Telephone systems are maintained by the Government in Antigua, St. Kitts, Nevis and Montserrat.

Telegraph communication is maintained by means of wireless operated by Cable & Wireless (West Indies), Ltd., there being stations at Antigua and St. Kitts, all of which communicate with one another and with Barbados for telegrams to the United Kingdom, Canada, North America, etc. There is also a wireless station in Montserrat maintained by the Colonial Government but operated by the company.

The cable stations at Antigua and St. Kitts are also owned and operated by Cable & Wireless (West Indies), Ltd. A coast station is also maintained at St. Kitts for communication with ships at sea.

This company also maintains a wireless telephone service connecting Antigua, St. Kitts and Montserrat to the United Kingdom, Canada, the United States of America, and the other British West Indian Colonies.

**Finance and Trade**

| Year | Imports | Exports | Revenue | Expenditure |
|------|---------|---------|---------|-------------|
| 1940 | 688,905 | 796,674 | 365,427 | 354,702     |
| 1941 | 802,232 | 957,476 | 413,105 | 368,786     |
| 1942 | 832,613 | 644,519 | 480,347 | 474,679     |
| 1943 | 976,182 | 827,599 | 526,171 | 409,897     |
| 1944 | No statistics available | | 550,000 | 450,000     |
| 1945 | 1,200,000 | 950,000 | 625,000 | 570,000     |
| 1946 | 1,500,000 | 1,100,000 | 700,000 | 620,000     |

**Chief Towns**

The most important towns are St. John (Antigua), 11,000; Basseterre (St. Kitts), 12,000.

**Education**

The system of elementary education is denominational in Montserrat and the Virgin Islands, the various denominations being Anglicans, Methodists and Roman Catholics. In the other presidencies elementary education is provided by the Government. On 31st December, 1946, there were 99 aided and Government schools in the colony. The clergy of the various denominations
are granted facilities for giving religious instruction during school hours to the children of their respective churches. During the year 1946 the cost of elementary education in the Colony was £59,500.

In 1945, the undenominational schools operated by the Anglican and Methodist authorities were taken over by the Government.

School fees have now been abolished in all public elementary schools throughout the colony. The schools are required to receive all children applying for admission. Grants-in-aid are refused to superfluous or inefficient schools. In the 99 aided and Government schools there were enrolled on 31st December, 1946, 28,400 children, with a daily average attendance of 23,000. For secondary education there are Government grammar schools for boys in St. Kitts, and for boys and girls in Montserrat, private grammar schools for boys in Antigua, private girls' high schools in Antigua and St. Kitts, and private mixed schools in Antigua, Nevis and St. Kitts (convent).

The standard of the secondary schools is the Cambridge School Certificate.

There is a training college for female teachers in Antigua (under the control of the Moravian Church).

**Civil Service**

A system of grading civil service clerks has been established throughout the colony. The pay assigned to the several grades is as follows:

- Junior clerks—£120–£10–£150–£15–£250.
- Senior clerks—£260–£20–£320.
- Principals—£350–£25–£425.

**Governors of the Leeward Islands**

| Year | Governor |
|------|----------|
| 1871 | Sir B. C. Pine, K.C.M.G. |
| 1873 | H. T. Irving, C.M.G. (later Sir H. T. Irving, K.C.M.G.) |
| 1875 | Sir George Berkeley, K.C.M.G. |
| 1881 | Sir J. H. Glover, G.C.M.G. |
| 1884 | Sir C. C. Lees, K.C.M.G. |
| 1885 | Lord Gormanston, K.C.M.G. |
| 1888 | W. F. Haynes Smith, C.M.G. |
| 1895 | Sir F. Fleming, K.C.M.G. |
| 1901 | Sir H. M. Jackson, K.C.M.G. |
| 1902 | Sir Gerald Strickland, K.C.M.G. |
| 1904 | Sir C. K. Knollys, K.C.M.G. |
| 1906 | Sir Bickham Sweet-Escott, K.C.M.G. |
| 1912 | Sir H. Hesketh Bell, K.C.M.G. |
| 1916 | Sir E. M. Merewether, K.C.M.G., K.C.V.O. |
| 1921 | Lt.-Col. The Hon. Sir E. E. Fiennes, Bart. |
| 1929 | Sir Reginald St. Johnston, K.C.M.G. |
| 1936 | Sir Gordon J. Lethem, K.C.M.G. |
| 1941 | Sir Douglas J. Jardine, K.C.M.G., O.B.E. |
| 1943 | Sir L. Brian Freeston, K.C.M.G., O.B.E. |
| 1948 | Lord Baldwin of Bewdley |

**Executive Council of the Leeward Islands**

The Governor.

W. A. Macnie, O.B.E. (Colonial Secretary).
R. St. J. O. Wayne (Administrator of Antigua).
L. S. Greening, O.B.E., M.C. (Administrator of St. Kitts-Nevis).
S. E. Gomes, K.C. (Attorney-General).
H. Burrowes (Commissioner of Montserrat).
J. A. C. Cruikshank.
E. A. Thompson.
C. N. Griffin, M.B.E.
M. H. Davis.
A. Moody-Stuart, O.B.E., M.C.
J. L. E. Jeffery.
G. P. Boon.
A. W. Griffin.
N. A. Berridge—Clerk.

**General Legislative Council**

**Official Members**

The Governor (President).
The Colonial Secretary.
The Administrator of St. Kitts-Nevis.
The Administrator of Antigua.
The Attorney-General.
The Commissioner, Montserrat.
The Commissioner of the Virgin Islands.
The Federal Treasurer.
J. R. A. Branch, M.B.E.

**Elected Members**

Antigua—V. C. Bird, M. D. L. Benjamin, E. H. Lake.
St. Kitts—R. J. Gordon, M. H. Davis, R. L. Bradshaw.
Montserrat—H. F. Shand, A. W. Griffin.

**Unofficial Member**

Virgin Island—J. O. Georges.
N. A. Berridge (Clerk).

**Antigua**

Antigua is situated in W. longitude 61° 45', and N. latitude 17° 6'. It is about 54 miles in circumference, and its area is officially recognised as 108 square miles, about half the size of Middlesex.

The islands of Barbuda (population 902) and Redonda are dependencies of Antigua. They have a total area of 62½ square miles. Barbuda lies about 25 miles due north of the main island, with an area of 62 square miles, is very flat, with a large lagoon on the west side, separated from the sea by a spit of sand. It was long owned by the Codrington family. It produces sea island cotton, charcoal, salt and phosphates of lime, and is well adapted for cattle grazing and horse rearing. Cotton is being grown with favourable results. Deer were introduced by the Codringtons. The island has communication with Antigua by a sailing-boat service. Redonda, lying between Montserrat and Nevis, 25 miles S.W. of Antigua, in 25° 6' N. latitude, 61° 35' W. longitude, one mile by one-third mile, 1,000 feet high, is valuable or its phosphate of alumina mines, discovered in 1865, formerly worked by the Redonda Phosphate Company under licence and subject to an annual rental of £50.

Antigua was discovered by Columbus in 1493 who named it after a church in Seville, called Santa Maria de la Antigua. It was first inhabited by a few English from St. Kitts in 1632. In 1663 Charles II made a formal grant of the island to Lord Willoughby, who sent out a large number of colonists. After an interval of French occupation, it was declared a British possession by the Treaty of Breda, 1666. There are no rivers, but there are a few springs and many wells, and the island has not latterly been subjected to the droughts from which it suffered in the past. The island is in the main low-lying and has no forests.

**Rainfall:**

| Year | St. John's |
|------|-----------|
| 1943 | 55-93     |
| 1944 | 43-67     |
| 1945 | 55-99     |
| 1946 | 49-06     |
On 22nd March, 1898, the Legislative Council, which was previously partly elected and partly nominated by the Governor, passed an Act abrogating itself and substituting the Crown Colony system. The new Council consists of 16 members, eight official and eight non-official, all nominated by the Governor under Royal Letters Patent. The Governor presided. By Ordinance No. 20 of 1936 the Council was reconstituted and is now composed of the Administrator as President, two other officials, three nominated and five elected members.

The chief products are sugar and cotton. In 1946, 14,000 acres were under sugar-cane, 600 under cotton, 2,000 under provisions, and 52,400 were uncultivated.

St. John, the chief town, has a population of 11,000 (census of 1946), and is a port of registry, having on 31st December, 1946, 22 sailing vessels registered, with a total tonnage of 344.

### Finances

| Year | Revenue | Expenditure | British Tonnage | Total Tonnage |
|------|---------|-------------|-----------------|---------------|
|      | £       | £           |                 |               |
| 1936 | 84,347  | 88,848      | 1,051,458       | 1,385,442     |
| 1937 | 132,600 | 110,747     | 1,150,478       | 1,419,486     |
| 1938 | 124,026 | 119,909     | 1,060,742       | 1,388,930     |
| 1939 | 127,327 | 152,311     | 1,068,640       | 1,353,950     |
| 1940 | 132,360 | 134,125     | 728,072         | 1,003,950     |
| 1941 | 173,810 | 144,230     | 571,862         | 1,422,764     |
| 1942 | 181,792 | 173,310     | 164,624         | 389,352       |
| 1943 | 219,559 | 200,974     | 57,524          | 86,328        |
| 1944 | 227,823 | 256,219     | 71,550          | 110,044       |
| 1945 | 296,536 | 310,029     | 176,742         | 211,278       |
| 1946 | 384,102 | 348,869     | 300,000         | 375,000       |

### Imports

| Year | From U.K. | From Other British Countries | From Elsewhere | Total |
|------|-----------|------------------------------|----------------|-------|
|      | £         | £                            | £              | £     |
| 1936 | 104,450   | 63,829                       | 49,863         | 218,142|
| 1937 | 110,530   | 113,724                      | 56,361         | 280,615|
| 1938 | 102,309   | 105,457                      | 43,903         | 253,669|
| 1939 | 81,446    | 101,080                      | 42,569         | 225,095|
| 1940 | 83,836    | 118,570                      | 21,788         | 224,194|
| 1941 | 62,132    | 235,389                      | 28,966         | 326,487|
| 1942 | 49,186    | 271,173                      | 102,467        | 422,826|
| 1943 | 60,308    | 302,349                      | 96,010         | 458,665|
| 1944 | 58,599    | 301,815                      | 193,583        | 553,997|
| 1945 | 66,255    | 354,249                      | 116,189        | 536,693|
| 1946 (est.) | 80,000 | 400,000                      | 150,000        | 630,000|

### Exports

| Year | To U.K. | To Other British Countries | To Elsewhere | Total |
|------|---------|----------------------------|--------------|-------|
|      | £       | £                          | £            | £     |
| 1936 | 129,421 | 58,622                     | 12,036       | 200,079|
| 1937 | 280,173 | 10,858                     | 47,851       | 338,882|
| 1938 | 84,415  | 112,823                    | 3,119        | 200,357|
| 1939 | 150,182 | 68,422                     | 2,126        | 220,730|
| 1940 | 150,961 | 26,497                     | 5,177        | 182,635|
| 1941 | 132,059 | 135,476                    | 4,341        | 271,876|
| 1942 | 230,469 | 47,296                     | 1,932        | 279,697|
| 1943 | 101,009 | 113,240                    | 155,290      | 369,539|
| 1944 | 128,914 | 55,182                     | 94,732       | 278,828|
| 1945 | 280,502 | 15,110                     | 18,418       | 314,030|
| 1946 (est.) | 350,000 | 20,000                     | 20,000       | 390,000|
The total Customs Revenue for 1946 was £105,000 (estimated).

Public Debt, 31st December, 1946, £77,181 (estimated).

Amount to credit of Sinking Funds, 31st December, 1946, £25,819 (face value of stock).

### POPULATION

| Year | White | Black | Coloured | Total |
|------|-------|-------|----------|-------|
| 1901 |       |       |          | 34,178|
| 1911 | 1,009 | 26,458| 3,927    | 31,394|
| 1921 | 914   | 24,854| 3,999    | 29,767|
| 1946 |       |       |          | 41,800|

### GOVERNORS OF ANTIGUA

- 1668 Lord Willoughby, of Parham.
- 1668 Samuel Winthorpe (Deputy-Governor).
- 1672 Philip Warner.
- 1675 Rowland Williams.
- 1682 Sir William Stapleton.
- 1682 Nathaniel Johnson.
- 1689 General Codrington.
- 1698 Col. John Yeamans (Lieut.-Governor).
- 1698 Christopher Codrington.
- 1704 Sir William Matthew.
- 1706 Col. Parke.
- 1710 Col. John Yeamans (Lieut.-Governor).
- 1710 General Hamilton.
- 1711 Walter Douglas.
- 1715 General Hamilton.
- 1721 John Hart.
- 1728 Lord Londonderry.
- 1730 William Matthew.
- 1752 Sir George Thomas.
- 1766 James Verchild.
- 1768 William Woodley (Lieut.-Governor).
- 1771 Sir Ralph Payne.
- 1776 William H. Burt.
- 1781 Sir Thomas Shirley.
- 1788 John Nugent (Lieut.-Governor).
- 1790 Sir Thomas Shirley.
- 1791 John Nugent (Lieut.-Governor).
- 1792 William Woodley (Lieut.-Governor).
- 1793 John Stanley (Lieut.-Governor).
- 1795 Major-General Leigh.
- 1799 William Woodley (Lieut.-Governor).
- 1801 Lord Lavington.
- 1810 Hugh Elliott.
- 1814 Lieut.-General Sir James Leith.
- 1816 Major-General Ramsay.
- 1819 Major-General Sir B. Durban.
- 1826 Sir Patrick Ross.
- 1834 Sir Evan M'Gregor.
- 1836 Henry Light (Lieut.-Governor).
- 1837 Sir William Colebrooke.
- 1840 Major Macphail (Lieut.-Governor).
- 1842 Sir Charles A. Fitz Roy.
- 1845 C. J. Cunningham (Lieut.-Governor).
- 1847 J. M. Higginson.
- 1850 R. J. Mackintosh.
- 1855 K. B. Hamilton, C.B.
- 1859 Sir Hercules Robinson (Lieut.-Governor).
- 1859 B. E. Jarvis (President).
- 1859 E. J. Eyre (Lieut.-Governor).
- 1860 Sir William Byam (President).
- 1860 K. B. Hamilton, C.B.
- 1863 Sir William Byam (President).
- 1863 Colonel S. J. Hill, C.B.
- 1866 Sir B. C. C. Pine, Kt. (Acting).
- 1867 Col. S. J. Hill, C.B.
- 1869 Sir B. C. Pine, K.C.M.G.
- 1871 E. D. Baynes (Acting).

### EXECUTIVE COUNCIL (LOCAL)

- The Governor.
- The Administrator.
- The Attorney-General.
- E. A. Thompson.
- E. E. Harney.
- Charlesworth Ross.
- J. C. McMichael.
- S. T. Christian, B.A., LL.M.
- R. Cadman.
- V. C. Bird.
- S. L. S. Walling—Clerk.

### LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL (LOCAL)

**President—The Administrator.**

**Official Members**

- The Crown Attorney.
- The Treasurer.

**Non-Official Members**

- S. T. Christian, B.A., LL.M.
- A. Moody Stuart, O.B.E., M.C.
- R. Cadman.
- V. C. Bird.
- M. D. L. Benjamin.
- E. H. Lake.
- H. O. Pratt.
- E. Williams.
- S. L. S. Walling (Clerk).

### ST. CHRISTOPHER AND NEVIS

This presidency consists of the islands of St. Christopher (St. Kitts), Nevis and Anguilla. These were united to form one presidency by the Federal Act No. 2 of 1882.

The total population on 31st December, 1946, was estimated at 46,000, as compared with 38,214 at the census of 1921. The total area is about 152 square miles.

### CONSTITUTION AND GOVERNMENT

In 1625 Mr. (afterwards Sir Thomas) Warner landed in St. Christopher, bearing a Royal Commission to the Earl of Carlisle, by which the islands of St. Christopher (or Merwar's Hope), Nevis, Barbados and Montserrat were taken under royal protection, and given over to his custody as the King's Lieutenant.

In 1671 St. Christopher, Nevis, Montserrat, Antigua, Barbuda, Anguilla "and all the other Leeward Islands" were separated from Barbados and created the "Leeward Caribbee Islands Government," and Sir Charles Wheler was appointed "Captain-General" of the same. The chief seat of government was then at Nevis, but afterwards transferred to Antigua, and the government of each island, in the absence of the Captain-General, was administered by a Lieutenant-Governor, or, when none such was appointed, by the President of the Council.

In 1689 Colonel Christopher Codrington was appointed Governor-in-Chief, and his commission, granted by William III, and dated 20th October, 1689, authorised him to call assemblies of freeholders and planters within any of the islands "jointly and severally to make laws for the public peace, welfare and good government of the said islands," thus providing for separate and federal legislatures. The legislature in St. Christopher and in Nevis, as in the other islands of the government, consisted of two houses, a nominated Council and an elected Assembly, and had secured to it its own peculiar laws and local jurisdiction.
By Letters Patent, dated 26th April, 1816, the Commission originally granted to Sir William Stapleton was revoked, and the Leeward Caribbee Islands formed into two distinct governments, the first comprising Antigua, Montserrat and Barbuda, and the other St. Christopher, Nevis, Anguilla and the Virgin Islands.

By Letters Patent, dated 23rd November, 1832, the General Government was restored, Dominica being for the first time included, and a Governor and Commander-in-Chief, with two Lieutenant Governors for St. Christopher, Nevis and Anguilla, and for Dominica respectively, were appointed, each island possessing a Legislative Council and House of Assembly, which continued, under the supervision of the Governor-in-Chief, to legislate for local interests.

In 1866 measures were introduced in each island to alter the constitution, and the two houses then existing were replaced by a single Legislative Assembly, consisting of ex-officio members, nominees of the Crown, and representatives of the people elected under a limited franchise.

In 1878 the single chamber constitution was repealed in St. Kitts and in Nevis, and the crown colony form of government adopted in its stead, and in 1882 these two islands, with Anguilla, were united into one presidency.

The office of Lieutenant-Governor, which existed until 1870, has been abolished, and the presidency, in the absence thereof from the Governor, is under the immediate supervision of an Administrator.

There is one Executive Council for the presidency, consisting of the Governor, the Administrator, certain ex-officio members, and such other persons as His Majesty may from time to time appoint. The Legislative Council consists of two official, three nominated unofficial members and five elected members, besides the Administrator. Of the elected members three are representatives of the electoral district of the island of St. Christopher, one represents the island of Nevis and one Anguilla. These members are elected by ballot by voters of the electoral districts they respectively represent. As no residential qualification is necessary it is possible for a person from any one of the islands, provided he is a registered voter and is standing for election, to be elected to represent any one of the other districts. Each island is a separate electoral district. The President of the Council enjoys a casting vote in the event of a tie in the votes of members at a meeting. The Council meets at the town of Basseterre in St. Kitts.

**Industry, Trade and Customs**

Sugar is the principal crop in St. Kitts (266,576 tons of cane in 1946 crop from 8,580 acres, 33,512 tons of sugar manufactured). It is grown in the Basseterre Valley and on the lower slopes round the island (the northern side showing the best average yield), and the cane is crushed and sugar produced at a central factory a mile from Basseterre. A light railway for haulage of canes encircles the island.

The only other important crop in St. Kitts is cotton, the lint produced in 1946 being 159,412 lb. on 860 acres.

Cotton and coconuts are the chief products exported from Nevis. Small quantities of tomatoes are also exported to Canada during the winter months.

Vegetables and cattle, chiefly for export to St. Kitts and for local consumption are also produced in Nevis.

Salt is the chief product of Anguilla, and is also produced from ponds at the south-eastern part of St. Kitts, the quantity from St. Kitts and Anguilla in 1946 being 5,392 tons valued at £14,144.

Anguilla also produces cotton in small quantities.

There are no manufacturing industries (other than the manufacture of sugar) in the presidency.

The Customs import tariff is mainly on an ad valorem basis with a surtax of 12½ per cent. A preferential reduction varying in amount, but in most cases equal to one third of the general rate, is accorded to Empire products. The percentage of trade in 1946 is as follows:

- United Kingdom . . . . . . 57
- Other British countries . . . . 31
- Other foreign countries . . . . 12

Total . . . . . . 100

**Education**

There are four secondary schools: a Government grammar school for boys in St. Kitts, a girls' high school in St. Kitts and a mixed school in Nevis, both state-aided, and a school run by the Roman Catholic Sisters.

There are 32 Government primary schools (17 in St. Kitts, including 5 in Basseterre, 10 in Nevis and 5 in Anguilla), also a Roman Catholic school and a few small private schools.

**St. Kitts**

The island lies in latitude 17° 18' N., and longitude 62° 48' W. The area of the main body of it presents a long oval, from the south-eastern end of which runs a narrow neck, gradually expanding into a small knob of land, within which are the salt ponds.

The total length of the island is about 23 miles. The total area is 68 square miles.

The central part of the main body consists of a range of lofty rugged mountains, which traverses it from south-east to north-west, attaining its greatest height at Mount Misery, which is about 3,711 feet above the sea. A branch of this range encloses the spacious and fertile valley or plain, on the seaboard of which lies Basseterre, the principal town with a population of about 12,000. Near the town of Sandy Point is Brimstone Hill, strongly fortified and fiercely besieged during the French wars. It is quite isolated and about 750 feet in height.

The circle of land formed by the skirts and lower slopes of the mountain-range of the main body of the island, and the valley of Basseterre, constitute nearly the whole of the arable and cultivated portion of the island. The higher slopes of the mountains are covered with short grass, affording excellent pasturage, while their summits are crowned with dense wood. The island is of volcanic formation, and the soil, save in the mountains (where it is clayey) is peculiarly light and porous, sandy yet fertile.

The climate, for a tropical one, is decidedly healthy. The highest temperature in the shade is about 88°, the lowest 66°, and the mean average about 79°.

The average annual rainfall of St. Kitts is 55 inches.

St. Christopher or St. Kitts, the Carib name of which was Liamuiga, "The Fertile Isle," was the first settled of the British West Indies, the settlement having been founded by Mr. Thomas Warner and other settlers, who landed on 28th
January, 1623, at the present village of Old Road. Later, French settlements were formed at the two ends of the island. The whole island was finally assigned to England under the Treaty of Versailles in 1783.

NEVIS

The island of Nevis is situated in 17° 40' N. latitude and 62° 33' W. longitude. It was discovered in 1498 by Columbus, and was colonised by the English from St. Kitts in 1628. Charlestown, the principal town, has a population of about 1,100. The population of Nevis largely consists of peasant proprietors.

The island, which is divided into five parishes, is nearly of a circular form; its area is about 50 square miles, or about 32,000 acres, of which about 15,000 acres are fit for cultivation; its greatest elevation 3,596 feet above the sea.

The soil is very different from that of St. Kitts, being of stiff clay, encumbered everywhere with volcanic boulders.

There are hot mineral springs adjoining the Bath House Hotel near Charlestown. These springs have valuable medicinal properties.

The climate is very similar to that of St. Kitts, from which place it is separated by a strait of about two miles in breadth at its narrowest part, which, however, lies out of the direct course for boats plying between the two islands. The distance between Basseterre (St. Kitts) and Charlestown (Nevis) is about 12 miles.

ANGUILLA

Anguilla is situated in 18° 12' N. latitude, and 63° 5' W. longitude about 60 miles N.W. of St. Kitts, and is 16 miles in length, and varies in breadth from three to one-and-a-half miles, containing an area of 35 square miles. The "Dogs" and neighbouring islands are dependencies of Anguilla.

Unlike the mountainous volcanic islands of St. Kitts and Nevis, Anguilla consists of Oligocene limestone and clay and its highest point is 213 feet above sea level.

The inhabitants are peasant proprietors under the jurisdiction of a medical officer who is also magistrate.

The island is healthy, but suffers from want of an adequate water supply.

The chief products are sheep and goats and salt. Sea island cotton is cultivated.

POPULATION

(according to the Censuses of 1911 and 1921)

| Year | Population |
|------|------------|
| 1911 | 26,283     |
| 1921 | 22,415     |
| St. Kitts |        |
| Nevis | 12,945     |
| Anguilla | 4,075     |

No census was taken in 1931.

Estimated population 31st December, 1945

| Island   | Population |
|----------|------------|
| St. Kitts | 18,467    |
| Nevis    | 15,267    |
| Anguilla | 4,840     |

Estimated population 31st December 1946

| Island   | Population |
|----------|------------|
|          | 38,574    |
|          | 46,000    |

FINANCES

| Year | Revenue (£) | Expenditure (£) |
|------|-------------|-----------------|
| 1936 | 108,358     | 97,768          |
| 1937 | 123,803     | 105,016         |
| 1938 | 137,493     | 122,659         |
| 1939 | 147,578     | 179,652         |
| 1940 | 176,217     | 164,256         |
| 1941 | 190,509     | 170,290         |
| 1942 | 197,244     | 196,874         |
| 1943 | 212,893     | 183,962         |
| 1944 | 232,114     | 230,413         |
| 1945*| 277,334     | 318,261         |
| 1946 | 330,176     | 278,231         |

Revenue and expenditure include receipts and payments for schemes from Colonial Development and Welfare Grants.

Public debt 31st December, 1946 £42,281

IMPORTS

| Year | From U.K. (£) | From Other British Countries (£) | From Elsewhere (£) | Total (£) |
|------|---------------|----------------------------------|--------------------|-----------|
| 1936 | 104,370       | 90,733                           | 61,024             | 256,127   |
| 1937 | 116,564       | 102,774                          | 69,565             | 288,903   |
| 1938 | 119,098       | 119,620                          | 63,067             | 301,785   |
| 1939 | 102,504       | 118,285                          | 72,475             | 293,264   |
| 1940 | 126,715       | 194,269                          | 45,239             | 366,223   |
| 1941 | 88,056        | 228,756                          | 34,736             | 351,548   |
| 1942 | 74,421        | 188,512                          | 56,302             | 319,235   |
| 1943 | 91,641        | 266,612                          | 77,813             | 436,066   |
| 1944 | 80,265        | 287,627                          | 97,019             | 464,911   |
| 1945 | 133,056       | 373,184                          | 121,094            | 627,334   |
| 1946 | 161,788       | 377,604                          | 95,899             | 635,291   |

EXPORTS

| Year | To U.K. (£) | To Other British Countries (£) | To Elsewhere (£) | Total (£) |
|------|-------------|--------------------------------|------------------|-----------|
| 1936 | 148,455     | 145,652                         | 5,924            | 300,031   |
| 1937 | 349,704     | 23,070                          | 16,315           | 389,089   |
| 1938 | 140,478     | 124,683                         | 1,156            | 266,317   |
| 1939 | 326,681     | 102,179                         | 4,964            | 433,824   |
| 1940 | 300,407     | 143,912                         | 6,604            | 450,923   |
| 1941 | 375,721     | 172,327                         | 5,177            | 553,225   |
| 1942 | 284,535     | 56,079                          | 3,124            | 343,738   |
| 1943 | 260,742     | 86,941                          | 229,231          | 576,914   |
| 1944 | 290,467     | 52,559                          | 211,097          | 554,123   |
| 1945 | 472,312     | 45,090                          | 138,569          | 655,971   |
| 1946 | 607,719     | 41,184                          | 62,830           | 711,733   |

Customs revenue—1943 £74,830
1944 £80,371
1945* £101,186
1946 £112,307

* Estimated.

LIEUTENANT-GOVERNORS, ETC., OF ST. KITTS, FROM 1834

1834 Lieut.-Colonel J. Lyons Nixon (Lieut.-Governor).
1835 W. G. Crooke (President).
1839 C. T. Cunningham (Lieut.-Governor).
1847 R. J. Mackintosh (Lieut.-Governor).
1850 E. Hay Drummond Hay (Lieut.-Governor).
1855 Hercules G. R. Robinson (Lieut.-Governor).
1856 Thomas Price (Administrator).
1860 Sir B. C. C. Pine (Lieut.-Governor).
1862 J. E. Tudor (President).
1862 J. H. King (President).
1863 Sir B. C. C. Pine (Lieut.-Governor).
1864 J. R. Holligan (President).
1865 Sir B. C. C. Pine (Lieut.-Governor).
1866 J. R. Holligan (President).
1867 Sir Arthur Rumbold, Bart. (Administrator).
1867 Capt. Mackenzie, R.N. (Lieut.-Governor).
1868 W. W. Cairns (Lieut.-Governor).
1870 F. S. Wigley, C.M.G. (Administrator).
1872 J. S. Berridge. (President).
1873 Alexander Wilson Moir, C.M.G. (President).
1883 C. M. Eldridge (President).

Administrators

1888 J. S. Churchill (Commissioner).
1895 T. Risely Griffith, C.M.G. (Administrator).
1899 Charles T. Cox (Administrator).
1904 Sir Robert Bromley, Bart (Administrator).
1906 T. L. Roxburgh, C.M.G.
1916 Major J. A. Burdon, C.M.G.
1925 Lt.-Col. T. R. St. Johnston, C.M.G.
1929 T. C. Macnaghten, C.M.G., C.B.E.
1931 D. R. Stewart, C.M.G.
1940 J. D. Harford, C.M.G., M.A.
1947 L. S. Greening, O.B.E., M.C.

Executive Council

The Governor.
The Administrator.
The Colonial Secretary.
The Attorney-General.
J. P. O'Mahony, M.B., Ch.B., B.A.O., D.T.M. (Medical Officer in Administrative Charge).
C. F. Henville, LL.B. (Additional Magistrate District "C" and "D" and Crown Attorney).
E. A. Evelyn (Magistrate and Warden, Nevis).
V. S. Brookes (Treasurer).
H. B. Henville, LL.B.
Rev. W. Sunter.
M. H. Davis.
A. C. Evelyn.

Legislative Council

Official Members

The Administrator.
C. F. Henville, LL.B., Magistrate, District "C" and "D" and Crown Attorney).
Treasurer, ex-officio.

Nominated Members

H. B. Henville.
C. B. B. Connell.
A. C. Evelyn.

Elected Members

St. Kitts—R. L. Bradshaw, M. H. Davis, J. N. France.
Nevis—R. J. Gordon.
Anguilla—D. Lloyd.

Montserrat

This Island, discovered by Columbus in 1493, was named by him after a famous mountain in Spain, where is situated the monastery in which Ignatius Loyola conceived the project of founding the Society of Jesus.

It is situated 27 miles from Antigua in 16° 45' N. latitude, and 61° W. longitude, and is about 11 miles in length and 7 miles in the broadest part. Its total area is 32 square miles. It is of volcanic formation and very rugged and mountainous. The hills are covered with forest, the highest elevation being Chance's Mountain (3,000 feet) in the southern part of the island. Plymouth, the chief town, with a population of about 2,000, is on an open roadstead on the south-west coast.

Montserrat was colonised by the Irish in 1632; the French took it in 1664 and levied heavy imposts on the inhabitants; it was restored to England in 1668. It capitulated to the French in 1782, but was restored to the English in 1783.

Montserrat possessed a Legislative Council and Assembly as early as 1668. In 1861 these were replaced by a single Chamber of eight elected and four nominated members.

By an Act of the Legislative Assembly, dated 24th December, 1866, and confirmed by Order in Council 26th February, 1867, this Chamber was replaced by a Legislative Council of not more than six nominated members. By Act No. 2 of 1902, which rescinded these Acts, the number of members was limited to four. Ordinance No. 4 of 1909 repealed No. 2 of 1902 and limited the tenure of office of the members of the Council to three years. Ordinance No. 2 of 1911 amended No. 4 of 1909 and increased the number of members to six. Ordinance No. 18 of 1922 amended No. 4 of 1909 and increased the number to eight. By Act No. 16 of 1936 this Council was reconstituted, substituting for the old council a body consisting of the Commissioner as President, two official members, four elected unofficial members, and two nominated unofficial members. Unofficial representation on the General Legislative Council of the Leeward Islands has now been provided for.

The cultivation of sugar, once the staple industry of the island, is now reduced to an acreage of about 150 acres, and Sea Island cotton, tomatoes, onions and limes are now the principal products.

Among the other exports may be mentioned lime oils, lime juice, cotton-seed, oil, cattle and vegetables.

There are 11 Government schools with a total roll of 3,026 scholars, and 1 denominational school with a roll of 267 scholars.

There is one Government secondary school (mixed) with a roll of 110 scholars.

An extensive road reconstruction scheme is in progress, and the roads throughout the Island are being steadily and systematically improved.

On 7th August, 1899, the island was devastated by a hurricane; and again on 28th August, 1924, and 12th September, 1928.

A series of seismo-volcanological disturbances occurred during the years 1933 to 1935 causing much damage to stone and mortar buildings.

There is telephonic communication throughout the Island.

Cable & Wireless (West Indies), Limited, operates the wireless station from which services are conducted with the Company's stations at Antigua and St. Kitts, and with Barbados, where connection is made with all parts of the world through the system of Cable & Wireless, Limited.

They also operate a wireless telephone system which connects the island with the other British West Indian Islands, United Kingdom, U.S.A., and Canada. The island is considered to be one of the most healthy of the Antilles.

The average annual rainfall at the Grove botanic station is about 67 inches.
