NIGERIA

SITUATION AND AREA

The British colony and protectorate of Nigeria is situated on the north-eastern shore of that deep indentation in the western coast of the African continent known as the Gulf of Guinea, and is enclosed roughly by parallels of latitude 4° and 14° N. and by meridians of longitude 3° and 14° E.

It is bounded on the north and north-west by the military territories of the French Sudan, on the east and south-east by the Cameroons, on the south and south-west by the waters of the Gulf of Guinea, and on the west by the French colony of Dahomey. Its greatest length from east to west is 700 miles and greatest breadth from north to south 650 miles.

Great Britain has received a mandate over a small portion (amounting to 34,081 square miles) of the former German territory of the Cameroons, which portion has been placed, for purposes of administration, under the Nigerian Government.

The area of Nigeria, including the area of Cameroons under British mandate, is approximately 372,674 square miles (eastern and western provinces and colony 90,896 square miles, northern provinces 281,778 square miles). The country is therefore a little less in area than Norway and Sweden together.

CLIMATE

Except perhaps on the plateau the climate of Nigeria is not a healthy one for Europeans, and Nigeria shares with the rest of West Africa an unenviable reputation in this respect. The climate is influenced to a large extent by the interaction of two great wind currents, viz., the dry dust-laden Harmattan, which is a north-easterly wind off the Sahara, and the south-westerly monsoon. The seasons are as a rule well defined—the "dry season" characterised by the dry north-easterly Harmattan, and the "rainy season." The former begins in the north in October, extending its influence gradually southward until it is perceptible at Lagos early in November. There it appears intermittently up to the beginning of March, but in the north the dust and haze are more continuous and last until April. During this period the maximum diurnal variations of temperature occur. The wind blows generally from the north-east, and both diurnal variation and humidity vary with the severity of the Harmattan. Even in Lagos, where hourly observations are taken, during December and January the humidity has been known to fall to 28 per cent. This season is ushered in and out by short periods of tornados and, with a slight break in August in the southern provinces, the rainy season fills the remainder of the year. A prevailing southwest wind supplies on the coast a copious precipitation which decreases rapidly as it travels inland. At Bonny, on the coast, the rainfall recorded in 1923 was 150-99 inches, rain falling on 151 days; at Kaduna, in the middle of the country, 43-55 inches, rain falling on 112 days; while the lowest recorded was 25-05 inches at Sokoto, rain falling on 44 days.

GENERAL DESCRIPTION

Nigeria consists of the following four main zones or areas:

(1) An area of swamp and mangrove forest with almost impenetrable undergrowth, running parallel to the coast-line and varying in depth from 20 to 60 miles. This area, which includes the deltaic region of the River Niger, is covered by a network of creeks and traversed by numerous rivers, the most important of which are the Rivers Benin, Forcados (branch of the River Niger), Nun (branch of the River Niger), Sombreiro, Bonny, Imo, Kwa-Ibo and Cross.

(2) A belt of dense forest with thick undergrowth extending from the western to the eastern boundary and from 50 to 100 miles in width. The southern border of this area is some 20 miles from the coast-line in the west and thence follows the northern limit of the swamp and mangrove area. Its northern edge is difficult to determine exactly, as the belt gradually changes to patches of forest alternating with thick scrub and grass plains running approximately along a line drawn in a general east-south-easterly direction from about 7° 30' N. on the western border to 6° N. on the extreme east. The country is generally undulating with scattered hills, and an extensive view can seldom be obtained; there are, however, hills rising to over 3,000 feet, and the region becomes mountainous as the Cameroons frontier is approached. The zone is well watered by numerous rivers, which, with few exceptions, run from north to south, and contains extremely rich oil-palm areas. There are no open spaces, except around villages and clearings for farms.

(3) A zone of comparatively open country gradually developing into park-like land and thence into open expanses covered with high grass as the watershed of the River Benue and that of the Niger (above its confluence with the Benue) are neared. The zone is generally hilly and mountainous on the Cameroons frontier, where heights above 6,000 feet are to be found.

(4) A plateau occupying the greater portion of Nigeria north of the Rivers Niger and Benue. East of longitude 7° the southern limits of this plateau are determined by a zone of hills which succeeds the undulating grass country to the south. The features of the plateau are generally similar, and although many rivers take their rise in this tableland, it is broken to no great extent by their valleys, except in the cases of those of the Rivers Niger and Benue on the south and west. In elevation it does not exceed an altitude of much over 2,000 feet, except in the mountainous parts of Bauchi, where heights of 6,000 feet and more occur, and in the south-west of Yola, which is occupied by a part of the Cameroons mountain system. The surface is generally undulating, marked here and there by hills of granite and sandstone, which rise abruptly from the surrounding land. The country is clothed to a large extent with thin forests which become more and more scanty as the Western Sudan is entered and the arid "steppes" of the Sahara Desert are approached.

HISTORY

As far back as the 17th century British traders have had mercantile depôts on the mouths of the Niger and adjacent rivers and creeks, known as the oil rivers, and in those early times the trade was mainly confined to the traffic in slaves. At this epoch the French attempted a settlement at the mouth of the Niger, but were unsuccessful and during the 18th century British interests preponderated.

At the beginning of the 19th century the exploration of the upper river, which had hitherto been supposed to be identical with the Nile or Congo, began, and Mungo Park traced its course...
from Bamako to Bussa, where he lost his life in the rapids. Lander in 1830 demonstrated the identity of Mungo Park's river at Bussa with the lower Niger, and followed its course to the sea.

In the next two decades, 1840-60, efforts were made, both by the British Government and private individuals, including French and German merchants, to develop the trade of the Niger, while our knowledge of the interior was greatly enlarged by the travels of Clapperton and Allen, both British, and of Barth and others, all at British instigation. A consulate was founded at Lokoja, and, at the cost of much money and many lives, some progress seemed to have been made, only to result in failure. The pioneer of these efforts was McGregor Laird, who in 1852 began to establish stations and to endeavour to secure the country for England, but the stations were destroyed by natives, or removed after Laird's death in 1861. The good results of his work were not, however, entirely lost.

The situation in the early seventies was that there were numerous trading firms—English, French and German—on the Oil rivers, where the export trade in palm oil had begun to assume importance, the imports being chiefly confined to spirits, guns and powder. The expeditions sent by the British Government to the higher river, and the subsidies voted by Parliament, had been withdrawn, and European intercourse with the Niger would have ceased had it not been for the perseverance of a few British firms, who, during the four months of high water, each sent a trading steamer up the river, and soon established a few primitive stations, where the white population of Nigeria lived. These bold pioneers were at the mercy of powerful chiefs, and gross outrages were from time to time avenged by the despatch of a light draught gunboat.

At the close of 1877, Mr. Goldie-Taubman—afterwards Sir George Goldie—visited the Niger and recognised that amalgamation of interests and a settled government must replace the chaotic rivalry of traders. With this object in view he determined to secure a charter for a British company. After much negotiation the small British interests, which were the only ones existent on the Niger at that date, were amalgamated in the United African Company in 1879, and in 1881 a charter was applied for. The objection was raised that the capital of the company was too small, and hence the National African Company was formed with a capital of a million sterling, with the object of opening up direct relations with the great chiefs of the interior.

With great energy the new company founded stations, sent out a river flotilla, and pushed up the Niger and Benue, but meanwhile the foresight of Gambetta had prompted the establishment of two French companies, which, being backed by the French Government, acquired a great influence on the lower Niger. Of these the Compagnie du Sénégal had a capital of £600,000, and some 30 French stations were formed, and while the French flag remained the charter could not, of course, be granted. The energy of Sir George Goldie, however, secured the disappearance of the French flag just in time to announce at the Berlin Conference in 1885 that the British flag alone flew on the Niger, and to secure to Great Britain the guardianship of the international navigation rights on the Niger while the French companies and rival British interests which had meantime grown up were absorbed in the National African Company.

In April, 1885, a new danger arose from the mission of Herr Fliegel to secure treaties with Sokoto and Gwandu on behalf of Germany, but he was anticipated by the British company, who concluded treaties with those powerful emirs. Great Britain was, therefore, able to conclude the agreement of 1886 with Germany, which settled the frontiers between Nigeria and the Cameroons as far north as Yola, and in July, 1886, the long-delayed charter was granted, and the company changed its title to that of the Royal Niger Company. Meanwhile, the territories adjacent to the river had been placed under British protection.

The first decade was spent in founding a number of commercial and quasi-administrative stations on the Niger and Benue Rivers, and in making treaties with the native tribes, and consolidating the commercial organisation on which the company was dependent for its revenue. The expeditions of Monteil to Lake Chad from the west, of Crampnel from the south-east, and of Mizon by way of the Niger and Benue, were checked, and finally, in 1890, an agreement was arrived at with France by which the line dividing the French Sudan on the north from Nigeria was drawn with certain deflections from Say, on the Niger, to Barua, on Lake Chad, and in 1893 the Cameroons boundary was extended from Yola to the south of the same lake.

In 1897 the growing hostility of the great Fulani Power culminated in a plan to drive the white men out of the country. The company were not unprepared, and they took the field with some 500 or 600 soldiers, led by about 30 British officers, against many thousands of the enemy, of whom a large proportion were mounted. Nupe, a dependency of Sokoto, which had thus challenged the company's existence, was divided by the Niger into two nearly equal portions. The southern portion was first conquered, and then northern Nupe after a two days' fight before the capital at Bida. Ilorin, a smaller dependency, was next subdued. Prior to this southern Nupe had been partially cleared of the Fulani slave raiders, and on 20th June, 1897, the legal status of slavery in the Niger territories was declared abolished by the company.

Simultaneously with this crisis another, which was to have far-reaching effects arose. The only indeterminate frontier remaining was that to the west. The company perceiving, in 1894, that French enterprise contemplated the annexation to Senegal and Dahomey of the Borgu country, sent out Captain Lugard (later Lord Lugard) to negotiate treaties with the king or chiefs of that country. Anticipating the powerful French expeditions by only a few days, he succeeded in making treaties at the capital of Nikki, and with other semi-independent chiefs of districts. Disregarding these prior British treaties, a swarm of French expeditions spread over Borgu, and having obtained a pledge from our Government that Sir George Goldie's powerful expedition, then in the field against the Fulani, should not advance north of latitude 9°, they invaded Bussa, with which we had a specific treaty of many years standing, and established themselves on the Niger at several points.

At the end of 1897, in view of this situation, the British Government decided to raise an Imperial local force, and the task was confided to Colonel Lugard, who left England in March, 1898. After a period of great tension, during which the British and French troops faced each other, and a conflict was daily imminent, a convention was signed laying down a boundary line
from the intersection of the 9th parallel with the frontier of Dahomey to Illo on the Niger, and thence to the northern frontier, which was more accurately defined, to Lake Chad, and to its junction with the Cameroons frontier. Meanwhile, the Emir installed at Bida by the company was ousted, and the Nupes were again in arms, while the army of Rabeh, which had penetrated from the Nile Valley to Lake Chad, conquered and laid waste the territory of Bornu, but eventually returned to the south of Lake Chad.

The Imperial force, called the West African Frontier Force, with a "Commissioner and Commandant" at its head, and independent of the Company, was rapidly being formed, with its headquarters at Jebba, and with numerous detachments holding the posts evacuated by the French throughout Borgu, and a strong garrison at Lokojja.

The Imperial Government having decided that the charter of the Royal Niger Company should be revoked, and that its administrative rights and powers should be transferred to the Crown, steps to this end were taken at the end of 1898, when the convention with the French Government had been signed. The actual transfer of the Company's rights and possessions to the Crown took place on the 1st of January, 1900, when the territories north of a line extending, with deflections, from approximately latitude 9° on the Dahomey frontier to Idah on the River Niger, thence to Takum on the Cameroons border, were formed into the protectorate of Northern Nigeria under Colonel Lugard as High Commissioner.

During the first years of the protectorate of Northern Nigeria, the Government was engaged in bringing under control the powerful Emirates of the Hausa States and the Kanuri Kingdom of Bornu. These Emirs, who maintained large standing armies, a large proportion of which was mounted, annually took the field and devastated vast tracts of country in slave-raiding expeditions. Despite the treaty with Sokoto, under which the Royal Niger Company paid him an annual subsidy, the Fulani Emirates now defied the Government. The Emirs of Nupe and Kontagora were brought under control in 1901; Yola, Bauchi and Bornu in 1902; and the work of pacification was practically completed in 1903 with the taking of Kano and Sokoto, and the action at Birni. Since that date the Hausa States have maintained a record of peaceful progress, with the exception of a rising by a so-called "Mahdi" in 1906 at Satiri in the Sokoto province, which was, however, quickly suppressed with the loyal assistance of the Emir of Sokoto. The minor Emirate of Hadejia in the extreme north, which had not previously been brought under control, assumed an aggressive attitude in 1906 which, however, was suppressed. It was necessary also to send minor expeditions against various unruly and truculent pagan tribes, of which the more important were the Munshis on both banks of the Benue, the Okpotos in the Bassa (now part of Kaba) province, and various hill-tribes in the Bauchi and Nassarawa (now divided between Plateau and Benue) provinces.

In addition to the pacification of these vast areas—hitherto largely unexplored—the early years of the protectorate were devoted to creating a civil government in all its departments, and to the housing of the civil and military officials, and the erection of public offices; the building of the first light railway from Barijuko (on the navigable Kaduna) to Zungeru (22 miles), to which place the seat of Government was transferred in 1902 from the temporary capital at Jebba; and the opening up of communications both by land and by the navigable waterways of the Niger, Benue, Kaduna and Gongola Rivers. In 1907 the construction of the main trunk line from the navigable Niger at Baro to Kano (356 miles), the great market of the Hausa States, was commenced and completed, as a pioneer line, in 1912. During the 14 years from the inception of the Government of Northern Nigeria on 1st January, 1900, to its amalgamation with Southern Nigeria on 1st January, 1914, there were constructed in the protectorate 700 miles of railways and 3,500 wire miles of telegraphs, while the Marine Department worked 1,000 miles of river.

In the political and administrative sphere a complete civil service was created, which increased from half a dozen officers in 1900 to an establishment of 132 residents and assistants in 1913. The guiding principle of the Administration was indirect rule through the native chiefs, the powers delegated to whom varied with their degree of enlightenment. A form of direct taxation was evolved, based on the elaborate system which obtained in the Hausa States prior to the British occupation, but shorn of its abuses. The collection of these taxes was made through the chiefs, a fixed proportion of them being retained in "Native Treasuries," from which the salaries of the native officials were paid.

As an indication of the progress achieved, the Durbar held at Kano on 1st January, 1913, may be instanced, when practically all the chiefs of the Protectorate—from the great Mohammedan Emirs to the petty chiefs of pagan hill tribes—assembled with such retinues as they were allowed to bring, estimated at 20,000 horsemen and 40,000 foot.

The Oil Rivers Protectorate.—When, in 1885, the British Government at the conference of the European powers, held at Berlin, was able to obtain acknowledgment of the fact that a British protectorate had been virtually established over the Niger districts, an Order in Council defining them was made, and the portion lying on the coast line was designated the Oil Rivers Protectorate, and placed under Consular rule.

In 1891 the rule of the Consul over the Oil Rivers Protectorate was exchanged for that of a Commissioner and Consul-General, stationed at Old Calabar (now Calabar), while Deputy Commissioner and Vice-Consul were appointed to the Rivers Benin, Bonny, Brass and Forcados, and to the districts of Sapele and Warri.

By an Order in Council of 1893 the Oil Rivers Protectorate was extended definitely into the hinterland under the name of the Niger Coast Protectorate, and an administration established under an Imperial Commissioner and Consul-General.

Benin.—In 1892 Captain Gallwey (now Sir H. L. Galway) concluded a treaty with the king of Benin. As time passed, however, it became evident that this potentate had no intention of adhering to its provisions.

At this period Benin held enormous power over the surrounding territory, and it was said that her influence extended even so far as Sierra Leone on one side, and the Congo River on the other. The terrible nature of the fetish rites and the wholesale human sacrifices, which took place in Benin City, urgently demanded European intervention and the introduction of civilised rule.
Early in 1897 a peaceful mission, organised by the Acting Consul-General to establish friendly relations with Overami, the King of Benin, and to induce him to carry out the terms of the treaty of 1892, was treacherously attacked, and with the exception of two, all the European members of the party were massacred. A powerful expedition was sent against Benin, and in a short time the capital had been captured, but the King made good his escape. The state in which Benin City was found passes all description. In every direction human remains, pits filled with bodies in various stages of decomposition, and altars dripping with fresh human blood were to be seen.

Overami eventually surrendered and was sent into exile at Calabar, where he died in the early part of 1914. In 1899 there was a second expedition into the Benin country, which resulted in the capture and execution of Ologboshere, the leader of the attack on the mission.

The Protectorate of Southern Nigeria, 1900–1906. When in 1900 the charter of the Royal Niger Company was revoked by the Crown, that portion of its territories lying between Idah and the coast was added to the Niger Coast Protectorate. At the same time by an Order-in-Council the Niger Coast Protectorate was constituted the Protectorate of Southern Nigeria, the administration being transferred from the Foreign Office to the Colonial Office, and placed under Sir R. Moor as High Commissioner. In 1901 the Niger Coast Protectorate troops were organised into a regiment of the West African Frontier Force, and remodelled on the lines of the original corps of that name raised in the Niger Company’s territories by Colonel F. D. Lugard in 1898.

Towards the close of 1901 preparations for the Aro expedition were commenced. These operations were directed against the southern Ibo people in general and the Aro, or Inokun tribe in particular. The Aros, who may be described as the dominant section of the great Ibo family, held paramount power over a large extent of country lying between the Niger and Cross Rivers. They had established a powerful fetish, probably derived from Benin, known as the Long Juju, which exercised an extremely evil influence on the ignorant and superstitious natives for miles around. After five months of arduous work, the Frontier Force accomplished the subjugation and disarmament of the Aro tribe, the destruction of the Long Juju and the bringing under Government control of that portion of the territories as far north as about the 5th parallel.

Between 1905 and 1909 several expeditions were sent into the hinterland with the object of opening to trade and civilisation previously unexplored tracts of country. The principal operations were the Bende-Onitsha Hinterland Expedition, 1905–06, and the Niger-Cross River Expedition, 1908–09. As the troops progressed through the country new administrative districts and stations were formed, broad roads constructed in all directions, and many new markets established.

The eastern frontier from the Cross River rapids to the sea was surveyed by an Anglo-German Commission in 1905–06; and from Cross River rapids to Yola in 1907–09. For some years before these delimitations, there were frequent raids across the border by German native soldiery from the Cameroons, which were invariably accompanied by robbery with violence and seizure; and even after the boundary line had been demarcated this violation of British territory not cease.

Lagos or Eko.—During the reign of Kosoko, Lagos, or Eko as it is known to the natives, became the chief centre of the slave trade in the Bight of Benin. Akitoye, his cousin, from whom the throne had been usurped, issued a proclamation to the effect that he would make common cause with the British against slavery if he were reinstated. Acting on this statement, the British Government took decisive measures, and in 1851 a party of bluejackets from Her Majesty’s warships attacked and reduced the town. Kosoko fled and Akitoye was restored to power. In 1852 Akitoye and his chiefs signed a treaty by the terms of which they agreed to abolish the export of slaves, and to encourage the work of missionaries and the establishment of stations for them. A consul was appointed to Lagos for the protection of British interests.

About nine months after the signature of this treaty some Portuguese slave traders, who had been expelled, returned to Lagos and renewed their old practices. Akitoye was informed of what was going on, and their attempts were promptly suppressed. In consequence of this, the slave trade party, under the leadership of Kosoko, organised a rebellion which broke out in 1853. Indecisive encounters took place between the two factions, and bluejackets were landed to protect the consulate. Attempts which were made by the consul and officers to mediate failed, and finally marines were sent to assist Akitoye, when, after a short fight, Kosoko was defeated and fled. Dosumu, who succeeded his father Akitoye, was unable to adhere to the terms of the treaty, and was induced in 1861 to cede the sovereignty of Lagos and dependent territories to the Crown in consideration of a pension, which he continued to draw until his death in 1885.

The Colony of Lagos.—In 1862 these territories were erected into a colony, and the following year Kosoko, who in 1854 had been acknowledged king of Lekki and Palma, districts lying to the eastward, ceded these places to the Lagos Government. At the same time protectorate rights were established over Ado and Oke-Odan on the west. In 1866 the colony became a portion of the West African Settlements, retaining a separate Legislative Council, but being subject to the Governor-in-Chief at Sierra Leone. In 1874 the colony, which extended from Badagri on the west to Odi on the east with an indefinite inland boundary, was united to the Gold Coast Colony.

In 1883 Appa, lying on the western border of the colony, was the next district to be brought under British jurisdiction. In 1884, the British Consul concluded a treaty with the Jekris by which their country as far as Mollume was placed under British protection, and similar treaties were made with the chiefs of Ogbo and Mahin, small tribal areas situated in the creek region to the eastward. In 1886 the Lagos territories were separated from the Gold Coast and erected into a separate colony and protectorate. Between the years 1886 and 1895 Mahin, Ijebu-Ro, Itebu and Aiyesan to the east, and Kotono, Igbesa, Ado and Ilaro to the west were proclaimed part of the protectorate. An expedition was sent against the Ijebus in 1892, which resulted in the military occupation of their country, and in the opening of a most important trade route to the interior.

From this time onward British influence gradually spread inland towards the Niger, and in 1899 the protectorate was extended to the confines of Northern Nigeria and to the border of the
Niger Coast Protectorate. The country generally prospered, and Lagos became a great trading port with many large mercantile firms, both European and native, established. Great trade routes were opened into the interior, and a railway was constructed from Lagos to Ibadan, passing through a thickly populated and fertile agricultural country.

The Colony and Protectorate of Southern Nigeria, 1906-1913.—In 1906 the colony of Lagos and its protected territory were amalgamated with the protectorate of Southern Nigeria under one administration and designated the Colony and Protectorate of Southern Nigeria. For administrative purposes the country was partitioned into three main divisions—the Western Province, which coincided with the former Colony and Protectorate of Lagos; and the Central and Eastern Provinces, which previously formed the Protectorate of Southern Nigeria.

The next few years were spent in building up an extensive system of communications. The railway from Lagos to Ibadan was extended over the Northern Nigeria border to Jebba; thence across the Niger to Zungeru; and finally linked up with the railway in operation from Baro on the Niger to Kano, the great Mohammedan trade centre of the north. A light railway was built joining the main line at Zaria with the tin fields of Bauchi. Broad main roads were driven in all directions and telegraph lines constructed between important administrative and trade centres.

In 1901 the great undertaking of making Lagos an open port by the construction of huge moles and by the dredging of the sandbar, which obstructed the entrance to the harbour, was commenced; and by the end of 1913 sufficient progress had been made to permit of large ocean-going steamers entering the harbour and berthing alongside the wharves. For several years vessels drawing 25 feet of water have been able to use the harbour.

Large areas in the north-eastern portion of the protectorate, notably the country inhabited by the warlike and hitherto intractable Munshi people, were brought under Government supervision.

The Amalgamation of Northern and Southern Nigeria, 1914.—By Letters Patent of 29th November, 1913, and an Order-in-Council dated 22nd November, 1913, which instruments came into operation on 1st January, 1914, the Colony and Protectorate of Southern Nigeria and the Protectorate of Northern Nigeria were formed into the Colony and Protectorate of Nigeria. By another order of the same date the boundaries of the colony of Nigeria were defined, and by a third order, which applied to the colony and to the protectorate, an advisory and deliberative body known as the Nigerian Council was established.

Provision was made for an Executive Council and for a Legislative Council for the colony. The legislative power for the protectorate was vested in the Governor. The colony was placed under an Administrator, and the protectorate, divided into two groups of provinces—Northern and Southern—under two Lieutenant-Governors.

Since the amalgamation, the chief events in the history of Nigeria between the Great War (1914-18), which resulted in the conquest of the Cameroons, and the 1939-45 War, in which Nigerian troops fought with distinction both in East Africa and in Burma have been the institution in 1923 of an enlarged and partly elected Legislative Council for the Colony and Southern Provinces of the Protectorate, replaced in 1947 by a broader constitution comprising a Legislative Council which legislates for the whole of Nigeria, and three Regional Houses of Assembly and a House of Chiefs (see under "Constitution"); the building of the Eastern Railway, and the development of the ports of Lagos and Port Harcourt and of the Government Colliery at Enugu; the two great trade booms and the depressions which succeeded them; the introduction of direct taxation in the Southern Provinces; and the establishment of air communications both within Nigeria and with the outside world.

The Cameroons.—The conquest of the Cameroons was completed in February, 1916, after a series of operations which commenced in August, 1914.

An Anglo-French military and naval force under the command of Brigadier-General C. Dobell (afterwards Major-General Sir C. Dobell), the Inspector General of the West African Frontier Force, compelled Duala to surrender on 27th September, 1914, and after hard fighting drove the German forces from the surrounding districts.

On 10th June, 1915, Garua, on the River Benue, fell after a siege of a few weeks by forces from Nigeria and the French Chad Territory under the command of Brigadier-General Cunliffe, the Commandant of the Nigeria Regiment, R.W.A.F.F.; having cleared the north of the Cameroons, except Mora, these forces marched southwards driving the Germans before them to the Sanaga River.

French forces, with a Belgian contingent from the Congo, invaded the Cameroons from French Equatorial Africa under the command of General Aymerich and gradually pushed forward from the south-east and south towards Yaunde, which had become the headquarters of the German forces. Finally the main German forces, being almost surrounded by the converging advance of the Allied troops, retreated southwards into the Spanish territory of Muni, where they were interned, and the isolated garrison of Mora in the north then surrendered.

By an arrangement which came into effect on 1st April, 1916, the Cameroons was provisionally divided into British and French spheres. The British sphere (about 31,150 square miles in extent) consisted of two portions. The smaller, in the extreme north was intended to include the whole of the Sultanate of Dikwa or German Bornu. The larger consisted of a strip of country bordering on Nigeria, about 400 miles in length and with a maximum width of 80 miles, extending from about 30 miles south of Yola to the Cameroon estuary. It included Buea, the German administrative capital of the Cameroons, and the ports of Victoria, Tiko, and Rio del Rey, and consisted of nearly the whole of the Victoria District, the Kumba (or Johann Albrechtshöhe) District, the Ossidinge District, part of the Chang District, the Barmenda District, and parts of the Banyo and Garua Districts.

The population of the British sphere at the last census in 1931 was 778,352.

The rest of the Cameroons, about 275,000 square miles, with Duala and Kribi, the chief ports, was assigned to France. Boundary adjustments with the French took place in 1920 in accordance with an agreement signed by Lord Milner and M. Simon on 10th July, 1919. The principal features of these were the transfer to the British of the country west of the Mandara
mountains from the Dikwa Sultanate in the north to the River Tiel in the south, and the transfer of nearly all the Chang District to the French.

The British sphere was placed under the control of the Governor of Nigeria, and the parts of the sphere to the north of the Bamenda District were administered by the staffs of the adjoining Nigerian provinces of Bornu and Yola. The Bamenda, Ossidinge, Kumba and Victoria districts were administered as a separate Cameroons province with four divisions (Bamenda, Mamfe, Victoria, Kumba) under a resident stationed at Buea, responsible to the Governor of Nigeria through the Lieutenant-Governor of the Southern Provinces. The large German cocoa, rubber and banana plantations in the Victoria district, with about 48,000 acres under cultivation, were placed in the charge of a plantation department, in order that they might be kept in good order as far as possible until their mode of disposal was settled. They were sold by auction in November, 1924.

By the Treaty of Versailles, Germany renounced in favour of the Principal Allied and Associated Powers all her rights over the Cameroons.

In December, 1920, the British and French Governments submitted to the Council of the League of Nations draft mandates for the British and French spheres with a joint recommendation (dated 17th December, 1920) for the division of the Cameroons in accordance with the Milner-Simon agreement of 10th July, 1919. In October, 1921, the Council of the League approved in principle the division of the country in accordance with that agreement and the application of the mandate system to those territories, and on 20th July, 1922, after a delay due to negotiations between the United States Government and the Mandatory Powers, the Council confirmed the mandates and defined their terms*.

By an Order in Council, dated 1923 and brought into force in February, 1924, and by Nigerian Ordinance No. 3 of 1924, provision was made for the future government of the British sphere as if it were part of the Protectorate of Nigeria. Under these enactments, the Cameroons Province is administered and legislated for as if it formed one of the southern provinces of the protectorate, while the northern parts are administered and legislated for as if they formed parts of the northern provinces of Bornu and Yola; and most of the laws of Nigeria are applied to the British sphere, subject to the terms of the mandate as regards the few provisions thereof which are not in accordance with ordinary Nigerian law and practice.

In January, 1946, H.M. Government announced to the first session of the General Assembly of the United Nations their intention of placing the Cameroons under the international trusteeship system established by the United Nations Charter, and on the 14th December, 1946, the General Assembly approved a Trusteeship Agreement for the Cameroons.

**CONSTITUTION**

The territorial divisions of Nigeria are the Colony of Nigeria and the Protectorate, the latter being divided into three Regions, namely, the "Northern Provinces", the "Eastern Provinces" and the "Western Provinces". The territory of the Cameroons is administered as an integral part of Nigeria in accordance with a Trusteeship Agreement dated the 14th of December, 1946. The northern portion is administered as part of the Northern Provinces, while the southern portion constitutes one of the six Eastern Provinces.

A new constitution replacing that of 1922 came into being on the 1st of January, 1947. The government of the Colony is now provided for by Letters Patent of 2nd August, 1946, and that of the Protectorate and the Cameroons by the Nigeria (Protectorate and Cameroons) Order in Council, 1946, of the same date. The Royal Instructions of 2nd August, 1946, also make provision for the government of both the Colony and the Protectorate (including the Cameroons).

These constitutional instruments provide for an Executive Council, consisting of the Chief Secretary to the Government, the three Chief Commissioners, the Attorney-General, the Financial Secretary, the Director of Medical Services, the Director of Education (ex-officio), and such Appointed Members as may be appointed by Royal Warrant or Instructions, or by the Governor on Instructions received through the Secretary of State.

Provision for the constitution and powers of a Legislative Council for Nigeria, including the Colony, the Protectorate and the Cameroons, is made by the Nigeria (Legislative Council) Order in Council, 1946, which also provides for the establishment and functions of a House of Chiefs and a House of Assembly for the Northern Provinces (which together form the Northern Regional Council) and Houses of Assembly for the Western and Eastern Provinces.

The Legislative Council consists of:

- The Governor, as President.
- Thirteen ex-officio Members, viz., the ex-officio Members of the Executive Council, the Development Secretary, the Director of Agriculture, the Director of Public Works, the Commissioner of Labour, and the Commissioner of the Colony.
- Three Nominated Official Members, being three Residents, one from each Region, appointed by the Governor for each meeting of the Council.
- Twenty-four Nominated Unofficial Members, viz., four Members appointed by and from the House of Chiefs; five members appointed by and from the Northern House of Assembly; two Members, being Chiefs, appointed by the Governor from the Western House of Assembly; four Members appointed by and from the Western House of Assembly; five Members appointed by and from the Eastern House of Assembly; and four Members appointed by the Governor, one representing the Colony, and three representing interests not otherwise adequately represented.
- Four elected Members; three elected by persons resident within the municipal area of Lagos, and one elected by persons resident within the municipal area of Calabar.

The qualifications for registration as a voter in Lagos or Calabar are that the voter must be a male person who (a) is a British subject or British Protected person of the age of 21 years or upwards; (b) has been ordinarily resident in the municipal area for the year immediately preceding the 1st October in the year of registration; and (c) was, during the aforesaid period, in receipt of a gross annual income from all sources of not less than £50.
The House of Chiefs is presided over by the Chief Commissioner, Northern Provinces, and consists of all first class Chiefs and not less than ten Members selected from among their own number by second class Chiefs of the Northern Provinces.

The Northern House of Assembly consists of 19 official members and not less than 20 nor more than 24 Unofficial Members. The Official Members are the Senior Resident of the Northern Provinces (President), 12 Residents (the Secretary, Northern Provinces being regarded as a Resident), the Secretary (Finance), Northern Provinces, the Regional Deputy Directors of Medical Services, Education, Agriculture and Public Works, and the Senior Crown Counsel, Northern Provinces. The Unofficial Members are six persons appointed by the Governor to represent interests not otherwise adequately represented, the remainder being Provincial Members selected by the Native Authorities in accordance with a procedure laid down in Directions issued by the Governor.

The Western House of Assembly consists of 14 Official Members and not less than 15, nor more than 19, Unofficial Members. The Official Members are the Chief Commissioner for the Western Provinces (President), seven Residents (the Secretary, Western Provinces, being regarded as a Resident), the Secretary (Finance), Western Provinces; the Regional Deputy Directors of Medical Services, Education, Agriculture and Public Works, and the Senior Crown Counsel, Western Provinces. The Unofficial Members are five persons appointed by the Governor to represent interests not otherwise adequately represented, the remainder being Provincial Members selected by the Native Authorities in accordance with a procedure laid down in Directions issued by the Governor.

The Eastern House of Assembly consists of 14 Official Members and not less than 15, nor more than 18, Unofficial Members. The Official Members are the Chief Commissioner for the Eastern Provinces (President), seven Residents (the Secretary, Eastern Provinces, being regarded as a Resident), the Secretary (Finance), Eastern Provinces, the Regional Deputy Directors of Medical Services, Education, Agriculture and Public Works, and the Senior Crown Counsel, Eastern Provinces. The Unofficial Members are five persons appointed by the Governor to represent interests not otherwise adequately represented, the remainder being Provincial Members selected by the Native Authorities in accordance with a procedure laid down in Directions issued by the Governor.

The House of Chiefs and the Houses of Assembly have no legislative powers. Their functions, in addition to appointing members to the Legislative Council, and such others as may be prescribed, are to consider and make recommendations with respect to the annual regional estimates, and to advise upon all Bills before they are introduced into the Legislative Council, with the exception of Appropriation Bills and Bills which are in their terms inapplicable to the region concerned.

POPULATION

Nigeria is divided among a great number of tribes. The origin and ethnological classification are obscure, but they may be divided into two main groups; the people of the north, who are organised in a number of Moslem states, and some Moslem nomads and a number of smaller unassimilated tribes; and the less highly organised tribes of the coast and forest regions.

The total population of Nigeria at the time of the last census in 1931 was estimated at 19,928,171 including 778,352 in the Cameroons under British mandate. This population was distributed as follows:

|                | Total. | Africans. | Non-Africans. |
|----------------|--------|-----------|---------------|
| Northern Provinces | 11,434,924 | 11,433,099 | 1,825         |
| Southern Provinces   | 8,493,247 | 8,489,630 | 3,617         |
| Nigeria              | 19,928,171 | 19,922,729 | 5,442         |

Nearly 2,500 of the non-native male population were in Government service, leaving, after excusion of 1,066 females, slightly less than 2,000 European and Syrian males, mostly engaged in commerce.

The division of the African population among the principal tribal groups is as follows:

| Per cent. | Per cent. |
|-----------|-----------|
| Fulani    | 10        |
| Hausas    | 18        |
| Ibibio    | 4         |
| Ibos      | 16        |
| Kanuri    | 5         |
| Munshi    | 3         |
| Yoruba    | 16        |
| Other     | 28        |

Hausas and Fulani together form 50 per cent. of the population of the Northern, and Ibos and Yorubas together 70 per cent. of the population of the Southern Provinces.

The African population of the five largest towns is:

- Ibadan: 387,133
- Lagos: 126,108
- Kano: 89,162
- Ogbomosho: 86,744
- Iwo: 57,191

The total population at the end of 1945 was estimated at over 22,000,000.

ADMINISTRATION

Nigeria is arranged in four main divisions, the Colony and three groups of provinces designated the Northern Provinces, the Western Provinces and the Eastern Provinces. The Colony comprises the former colony of Southern Nigeria, while the three groups of provinces are formed from the late protectorates of Northern and Southern Nigeria.

The Northern Provinces are Adamawa, Bauchi, Benue, Bornu, Ilorin, Kabba, Kano, Katsina, Niger, Plateau, Sokoto and Zaria.

The Western Provinces are Abeokuta, Benin, Ijebu, Oyo, Ondo and Warri.

The Eastern Provinces are Calabar, Cameroons, Ogoja, Onitsha, Owerri and Rivers.

The provinces are each partitioned into divisions.

The seat of government and the place of residence of the Governor is Lagos, which is also the headquarters of the Commissioner who administers the Colony. Each of the groups of provinces is administered by a Chief Commissioner, responsible to the Governor, with headquarters at Kaduna (Northern Provinces), Enugu (Eastern Provinces) and Ibadan (Western Provinces).
Each province is under the control of a Resident, who is assisted by a staff of district officers and assistant district officers who have charge of the various divisions into which the province is divided. The residents and their assistants are responsible for the detailed administration of the country.

The colony is in the charge of a Commissioner assisted by a staff of district officers and assistant district officers.

Native Authorities.—In the early days of administration in the Northern Provinces the system known as "indirect rule" was set up. The effect of this system is that to-day the functions of government are for the most part carried out through native chiefs and councils with the assistance and advice of the British administrative staff. The native authorities are responsible, through the administrative staff, to the Government for the peace and good order of their respective areas. Certain essential services are also undertaken by the native authorities and are maintained and paid for out of the revenue obtained from a share of the taxes collected by them, the whole of the native court receipts, and various minor fees. The revenue of each native treasury is shown in annual estimates, together with the expenditure for the year, drawn up with the advice of the administrative staff and approved by the Governor, but not subject to the control of the Legislative Council.

Between 1919 and 1928 the system of indirect rule was introduced generally into the Southern Provinces. These native authorities are gradually assuming, with increasing efficiency and confidence, a greater share of the responsibility for administration previously borne entirely by the Government.

RELIGION

In the Northern Provinces the bulk of the population is Muhammadan and the remainder, consisting chiefly of those tribes that have resisted the onset of Muslim invaders are termed in contradistinction pagans. Their religion corresponds to that of most other African tribes in their natural state and consists of a belief in a Supreme Being combined with forms of animism and ancestor worship. With this goes a belief in witchcraft and magic which varies in intensity, the fear of witchcraft being much greater in some tribes than in others. In the Southern Provinces the bulk of the population can still be termed pagans though Christianity is widespread among the educated and semi-educated classes. There are also large numbers of Muhammadans in the Yoruba towns.

Missionaries have been at work (in the Southern Provinces and Colony at least) for a great number of years, and many of the ancient treaties contained clauses by which the chiefs were bound to encourage and protect the Christian missions. The chief denominations established in Nigeria are the Church of England (Church Missionary Society), Roman Catholic, Methodist, Presbyterian and Baptist. There is also a Native African Church, modelled on the Church of England, but allowing polygamy among its members. There is a Church of England Bishop of Lagos assisted by three Assistant Bishops, and a Diocese of the Niger with a Bishop and two Assistant Bishops. The Diocesan Synod of Western Equatorial Africa was incorporated within Nigeria by Ordinance No. 53 of 1917, this ordinance was repealed by the Lagos Diocesan Synod Ordinance, 1923, which incorporated the Diocesan Synod of Lagos. There are five Roman Catholic vicariates with Bishops resident at Lagos, Asaba, Buea, Ondo and Onitsha respectively, also four Prefectures in charge of Prefects Apostolic resident at Kaduna, Jos, Calabar and Ogoja.

CURRENCY AND BANKING

The unit of currency is the pound, maintained at par with sterling by the West African Currency Board which issues and redeems currency in the four British West African colonies against deposits and withdrawals of sterling in London. The media of circulation consists of £1 and 10s. notes, and alloy and nickel-bronze coins of 2s., 1s., 6d., ld., ½d. and ¼d. issued by the board. All coins which, under the coinage acts of 1870 and 1891, are legal tender in the United Kingdom, and all West African and Nigerian subsidiary coins, are legal tender in Nigeria, gold and silver and alloy coins to any extent and bronze and nickel-bronze coins to the amount of 1s.

Native currency in the form of cowries, manillas, and brass rods is still used in some parts, but importation is prohibited, and the abolition of such native currency is being gradually effected.

Accounts are kept in sterling both by the public and by Government.

Banking facilities are afforded by the Bank of British West Africa Limited, Barclays Bank (Dominion, Colonial and Overseas), the National Bank of Nigeria Limited, and the Agbonmagbe Bank Limited. The Bank of British West Africa is established at Lagos, Abeokuta, Calabar, Enugu, Ibadan, Jos, Kaduna, Maiduguri Kano, Onitsha, Oshogbo, Port Harcourt, Sapele, Minna and Zaria, Barclays Bank (D.C. & O.) has branches at Lagos, Ibadan, Zaria, Port Harcourt, Jos, Burutu, Kano, Victoria and Ijebu-Ode. The National Bank of Nigeria Limited and the Agbonmagbe Bank Limited are incorporated in Nigeria. The former has offices at Lagos, Agege, Abeokuta, Ibadan and Kano and the latter has offices at Lagos, Zaria, and Shagamu.

COMMUNICATIONS

(a) Postal

Nigeria is a member of the Universal Postal Union and contains 125 post offices and 340 postal agencies. Full information concerning postal and telegraph facilities is given in the Nigeria Post Office Guide.

In addition to the ordinary sea mail communications a thrice weekly air mail service is in operation in both directions between Nigeria and the United Kingdom, the charge being 1s. per half ounce. An air letter service is in operation between Nigeria and all other countries in the Postal Union, the charge being 6d. a letter. A limited internal air mail is also in operation without surcharge.

A system of inland telegraphs, owned and operated by Government, connects the majority of the principal towns throughout the country. This inland system includes wireless telegraphs and a rudimentary trunk telephone system, the latter in course of development. There are 60 telephone exchanges connected by trunk lines within the three main groups. There is also a wireless telegraph system, including direction-finders, owned and operated by Government for aviation services.
Cable & Wireless Limited owns and operates cable and wireless stations at Lagos whence telegraphic communication is maintained with all parts of the world through the Company's system, and with ships at sea.

(b) Railways

The Nigerian railway, which is a Government system, comprises two main lines and several branches. The gauge of most of the track is 3 feet 6 inches. It has a total length, including branches, of 1,903 miles (including 133 miles of 2 feet 6 inches gauge.) Its equipment comprises 255 locomotives; 338 passenger train vehicles, including restaurant cars, and 3,887 freight vehicles, including brake vans.

The north-western main line of the railway runs from Lagos to N'guru, a distance of 843 miles. It passes through the important towns of Abeokuta, Ibadan (the headquarters of the Western Provinces), Ilorin, Jebba (where the line crosses the River Niger) Zungeru, Minna, Kaduna (the headquarters of the northern provinces), Zaria and Kano. Lagos is the terminal port; at Apapa, on the mainland side of Lagos harbour, there is a rail-served quay together with transit sheds. The terminus for local traffic is at Iddo, which is connected with the mainland and with Lagos Island by the Carter Bridge.

The principal export commodities carried on this section are ground nuts and cotton from the Northern Provinces, cocoa and oil palm products from south of Jebba; general imports and kola nuts form the principal items of north-bound traffic.

The eastern main line runs from Port Harcourt deepwater quay on the Bonny River northwards. It passes through a densely populated oil palm area en route to Enugu (the headquarters of the Eastern Provinces) where it serves the Government coal mines. The line crosses the Benue River at Makurdi and passes through Kafanchan Junction to join the north-western line at Kaduna, a distance of 569 miles from Port Harcourt. From Kafanchan, a connecting line runs to Jos, an important centre in connection with the tin mining industry. The tin mines are worked by private companies, and the tin is exported via Port Harcourt, as is coal.

There are four branch lines: Ifaw Junction to Idogo (27 miles); Minna to Baro, on the Niger River (111 miles); Zaria to Kaura Namoda (137 miles) and Zaria to Jos (133 miles of 2 feet 6 inches gauge track).

The railway operates road feeder services in the north, the equipment comprising 59 lorries and 26 trailers.

(c) Roads

The Government has already constructed a very large number of roads, most of which are suitable for motor traffic, and plans are in hand for further development. The roads are classified as follows:

Trunk roads A form the skeleton trunk road system on which the country is built up. This framework or skeleton consists of two main south and north roads, and four main lateral roads from west to east, the total mileage being 4,175 miles.

Trunk roads B are roads connecting provincial or divisional capitals and other large towns with the skeleton trunk road system or with a port or the railway. A total of 3,382 miles have been constructed.

Local feeder roads or unclassified roads form the network of roads serving the areas between the trunk road system, and at present there are 17,645, miles of these roads.

Six hundred and twenty-three miles of all the roads are bituminous surfaced and the remaining 24,579 miles have gravel or earth surfaces.

(d) Waterways

The Rivers Niger and Benue are in themselves great natural water highways, and in the south, particularly in the Niger delta, there are numerous other navigable waterways, rivers and connecting creeks, which provide means of communication and transport. In parts of Southern Nigeria water transport is the only means of communication.

(e) Aviation

Nigeria is well served by 30 all-season airfields distributed all over the territory. Of these, airfields at Lagos, Kano City, Kano South, Maiduguri, Port Harcourt, Kaduna, Yola and Ilorin are provided with at least one runway, 2,000 yards in length or over. Other important grounds such as Jos and Enugu have at least one runway of lengths of 1,350-1,700 yards. Generally a grass grown gravel surface is provided, but at Lagos, Kano City and Maiduguri there are bitumen or tar-surfaced runways.

Wireless communications with aircraft and point to point is established at Ikeja, Kano, Maiduguri, Port Harcourt, Kaduna, Enugu and Jos. Aircraft control radio telephone is installed at Lagos, Kano, Maiduguri, Jos, Port Harcourt. HF/DF is installed at Lagos, Kano, Jos, Port Harcourt, Maiduguri. Beacons are in use at Lagos, Kano, Jos, Maiduguri, Enugu, Port Harcourt and Kaduna. Other airfields are to be provided with wireless facilities in due course. There is a network of meteorological reporting stations all over the territory.

A five day per week service to the United Kingdom is run by B.O.A.C. via the direct route across the Sahara, and an inter-colonial service run by the West African Airways Corporation links Nigeria with the Gold Coast and Sierra Leone. An internal service on a three day per week schedule in each direction services Lagos, Port Harcourt, Enugu, Kaduna, Jos and Kano. Several foreign services to Europe, Belgian Congo and the French Colonies also operate several times each week.

(f) Shipping

Steamships maintain services between Nigeria and Europe, America, South Africa and the other West African colonies.

The two principal ports are Lagos and Port Harcourt. That of Lagos comprises Lagos Island and the mainland side of the harbour connected by the Carter Bridge. There is no rail connection to Lagos Island on which side of the harbour is a deep-water wharf and transit sheds for imports and numerous private jetties. On the mainland side of the harbour there is a modern deep-water quay at Apapa with rail and road connections, transit sheds and electric level-lifting cranes; also a wharf at which bulk-oil ships discharge to tanks ashore. The Apapa quay is capable of very considerable extension as trade may require.

Port Harcourt lies some 60 miles up the Bonny River and comprises a deep-water quay and transit sheds capable of further extension, with rail and road connections. Port Harcourt is the port of export for Nigerian coal which is shipped by belt conveyor or across the quay.
The two principal inland river ports are Burutu on the Niger, and Warri on the Warri River. Both are served from the ocean via Forcados and Extravos River. There is also a river port at Baro, some 280 miles up the Niger, and one at Makurdi on the Benue.

Other coastal ports are Calabar and Victoria.

SOCIAL SERVICES

(a) Health Facilities

The provision of health facilities has been conditioned largely by considerations of finance and communications, and services vary in different parts of the country according to their state of advancement as measured by the willingness of the people to accept the benefits offered by modern medicine. A total of 83 Government and native administration hospitals provide some 4,906 beds, while mission institutions provide a further 2,864. There are 179 Government medical officers, 81 mission doctors and 38 private practitioners. Attendances at Government and native administration African hospitals during 1946 totalled: in-patients, 116,429; out-patients (new cases), 1,002,244.

With the co-operation of the Rockefeller Foundation and other British colonial governments, a Yellow Fever Research Institute has been established in Lagos. The institute while primarily engaged in research also undertakes the storage, testing and distribution of yellow fever vaccine to the various territories in West Africa.

A widespread system of dispensaries has been developed throughout the country financed by native administrations and these cater for the common ailments among the rural population providing treatment for malaria, yaws and other endemic disease of high incidence. During 1946, new cases seen at these dispensaries amounted to 1,755,261, with 6,230,926 total attendances.

The births and deaths of non-natives are compulsorily registrable throughout Nigeria, and compulsory registration of the local population under the Births, Deaths and Burials Ordinance, is in force in various townships.

A small but efficient laboratory service is maintained which, besides being responsible for routine pathological and bacteriological examinations, undertakes the preparation of various vaccines, including the production of smallpox vaccine in the form of lanolated sheep lymph on a scale large enough to export appreciable quantities to other colonies in the region; 2,316,720 doses were produced in 1946. Antirabic vaccine is also produced in quantities sufficient for internal use and export to other British West African colonies.

Medical and pharmacy schools are conducted in Lagos (Yaba), but a much larger scheme for training in medicine is envisaged and the training in pharmacy will also be extended as an essential part of the 10-year development programme now (1946) being inaugurated. Training of health inspectorate staff is carried out on a scale large enough for territorial requirements and up to a standard set by the local branch of the Royal Sanitary Institute, while the training of subordinate hospital staff—nurses and midwives—is undertaken at various centres throughout the country.

Further details concerning health facilities in the territory may be found in the annual reports of the Medical Department.

(b) Education

Owing to the impossibility of obtaining precise statistics during the war years, the figures given are approximate only.

Number of children in Nigeria of school age, i.e., between 7 and 14 years.

Number of children attending primary schools.

Thus approximately 14 per cent. of the children available receive a primary schooling. In addition some 6,500 children attend secondary schools and there is one post-secondary institution, Yaba Higher College, with 108 students.

The incidence of schools varies greatly between one part of the country and another. For instance, although the Northern Provinces contain more than one-half of the total population the percentage of children attending school is only about 2 per cent. Even in the Southern Provinces, where the schools are generally much more popular, the degree of popularity varies enormously. As schooling is not compulsory, the supply of educational facilities has broadly followed the popular demand. The proportion of girls to boys attending is about 1:4 for the whole country but this proportion, also, varies widely in different areas. The number of trained African teachers at work is 4,568; and the number of untrained African teachers 24,650. Institutions for the training of teachers, male and female, are owned and maintained by Government and by voluntary agencies.

Schools are owned and maintained by Government, by voluntary agencies, by native authorities, and by private individuals. The voluntary societies are mainly, though not exclusively, Christian missionary bodies. The number of educational institutions maintained directly by Government is relatively small. It comprises:

1 Post-secondary college.
5 Secondary schools.
31 Primary schools.
9 Training institutions for teachers.

In the most northerly provinces of the country, where the population is generally Mohammedan, the majority of the schools are maintained by the native authorities. In other areas the chief educational agencies are the missionary societies and the native churches that have developed under their aegis. Voluntary Moslem societies play a small but increasing part. The number of schools owned by non-denominational African societies and by private individuals is growing.

All schools are subject to inspection by the Department of Education. The estimated expenditure by Government on education for the current financial year is roughly £1,140,480, in addition to large amounts being expended on educational development projects. Some £150,000 of this sum is spent on grants to voluntary agencies. The ordinary recurrent expenditure on education amounts to a little over 7 per cent. of the estimated revenue of the country. The native authorities also spend about £200,000. In addition a large but uncertain sum, much of which is raised from local sources, is spent by the voluntary agencies.

Technical Training

The Department has embarked on a scheme of technical education which has made considerable progress but has been delayed by difficulties connected with shortage of materials and of machine tools. The object of this scheme is to
produce skilled and independent artisans of whom Nigeria is in great need. At the present time efficient technical training is given solely by the technical departments of Government for their own employees, while the general standard of the free artisan is extremely low.

(c) Labour Services

The first Labour Code was enacted in 1929 and a section of the Nigerian secretariat was opened to deal with labour affairs. In 1942 the Labour Department came into existence as a separate Government department. Its present activities include industrial relations, wages inspectorate, inquiries into the cost of living, trade testing and advice to trade unions. Labour advisory boards have made inquiries into the conditions and wages of the tailoring, motoring and printing trades in Lagos and work in the rubber plantations in the Benin area. A further advisory board is shortly to be set up on the Banchi Plateau in connection with the mining industry. Adult and juvenile employment exchanges were opened in Lagos in December, 1943, and a juvenile advisory and after-care committee has been established in Lagos. A further registration of labour is in hand. Regional headquarters are shortly to be established in the Northern, Western and Eastern Provinces and in the Colony of Lagos, in order that the Chief Commissioners and the Commissioner of the Colony may avail themselves of the advice of senior labour officers and experts on labour problems. The old Labour Code Ordinance of 1929 has been replaced by a more comprehensive Labour Ordinance embodying those International Labour Office Conventions which His Majesty's Government has agreed to observe in relation to the colonies. The new code came into operation in April, 1946. One hundred African trade unions had been registered under the Trade Unions Ordinance by the 31st of December, 1946. A Nigerian Trades Union Congress came into being in 1943. The department publishes a quarterly review containing statistics and articles of general interest concerning labour matters. Further information regarding labour services may be found in the annual report of the department.

FINANCE

| Year | Revenue | Expenditure |
|------|---------|-------------|
| 1935-36 | £5,995,921 | £5,757,180 |
| 1936-37 | £6,259,547 | £6,061,348 |
| 1937-38 | £7,342,450 | £7,375,570 |
| 1938-39 | £5,811,088 | £6,867,408 |
| 1939-40 | £6,113,126 | £6,498,566 |
| 1940-41 | £7,273,157 | £7,254,325 |
| 1941-42 | £7,975,054 | £7,026,894 |
| 1942-43 | £9,034,154 | £8,998,795 |
| 1943-44 | £10,913,200 | £9,976,537 |
| 1944-45 | £11,444,756 | £10,132,599 |
| 1945-46 | £13,200,428 | £10,692,776 |
| 1946-47 | £14,955,750 | £14,426,830 |

Public Debt

(a) Total public debt as at 31st March, 1946, £24,764,599.

Period of Redemption

| Year | Amount | Period of Redemption |
|------|--------|----------------------|
| 1919 | £6,363,226 | 1949-1979 Trustee security. |
| 1923 | £5,700,000 | 1963 Trustee security. |
| 1927 | £4,250,000 | 1947-1957 Trustee security. |
| 1930 | £4,263,373 | 1950-1960 Trustee security. |
| 1935 | £4,188,000 | 1955 Trustee security. |

Total £24,764,599

The above excludes £94,000, Colonial Development and Welfare Scheme Loan in respect of Scheme No. D.259.

(b) Total annual charges:

(i) Annual interest £1,161,103
(ii) Annual contribution to sinking fund £223,784

Total £1,384,887

(c) Total value of sinking funds as at 31st March, 1946:

(i) Statutory sinking fund £6,125,262
(ii) Supplementary sinking fund £2,472,930
(iii) Reserve fund £1,500,000

Total £10,098,192

IMPORTS AND EXPORTS

(a) Imports

| Year | From the U.K. | Total |
|------|---------------|-------|
| 1935 | £4,783,607 | £7,803,811 |
| 1936 | £6,294,435 | £10,829,609 |
| 1937 | £7,959,616 | £14,624,750 |
| 1938 | £4,713,281 | £8,632,182 |
| 1939 | £3,648,021 | £6,757,136 |
| 1940 | £4,328,731 | £7,478,818 |
| 1941 | £3,695,241 | £6,505,116 |
| 1942 | £4,923,297 | £10,489,502 |
| 1943 | £7,436,562 | £12,418,239 |
| 1944 | £7,958,142 | £15,747,755 |
| 1945 | £7,935,057 | £13,583,118 |
| 1946 | £12,701,929 | £20,510,066 |

(b) Exports

| Year | To the U.K. | Total |
|------|-------------|-------|
| 1935 | £5,699,222 | £11,614,714 |
| 1936 | £6,590,241 | £15,076,946 |
| 1937 | £8,541,077 | £19,436,165 |
| 1938 | £4,897,363 | £9,701,046 |
| 1939 | £6,227,127 | £10,468,732 |
| 1940 | £9,289,546 | £11,603,687 |
| 1941 | £11,340,122 | £13,782,579 |
| 1942 | £12,116,020 | £14,523,814 |
| 1943 | £12,484,125 | £15,151,562 |
| 1944 | £13,986,035 | £17,189,289 |
| 1945 | £12,859,377 | £18,050,873 |
| 1946 | £18,369,045 | £24,514,195 |

Fuller particulars of imports and exports will be found in the Annual Trade Reports.
Governors and Administrators of Lagos

Administrators

1861 H. S. Freeman (Governor).
1864 J. Hawley Glover, R.N. (Lt.-Governor).
1866 Admiral C. G. E. Patey Subject to the
1870 W. H. Simpson Governor-in-
1871 J. Hawley Glover, R.N. Chief at Sierra Leone.
1872 George Berkeley Subject to the
1874 Capt. G. C. Strahan, R.A. Governor,
1874 Capt. C. C. Lees (Lt.-Gov.) Gold Coast
1880 W. Brandford Griffith, C.M.G. (Lt.-Gov.)
1887 C. A. Moloney, C.M.G. (Governor).

Governors

1891 G. T. Carter, C.M.G.
1893 Sir Gilbert Carter, K.C.M.G.
1897 Lt.-Col. Sir Henry McCallum, R.E., K.C.M.G.
1899 Sir William MacGregor, K.C.M.G., C.B.
1902 H. Reeve, C.M.G.
1903 Sir William MacGregor, K.C.M.G., C.B.
1904 Walter Egerton, C.M.G.

High Commissioners

Protectorate of Southern Nigeria

1900 Sir Ralph Moor, K.C.M.G.
1900 Colonel H. L. Gallway, C.M.G., D.S.O., Admin.
1901 Sir Ralph Moor, K.C.M.G.
1901 L. Probyn, C.M.G., Admin.
1902 Sir Ralph Moor, K.C.M.G.
1903 L. Probyn, C.M.G., Admin.
1904 W. F. W. Fosbery, Admin.
1904 Walter Egerton, C.M.G.
1905 Sir Walter Egerton, K.C.M.G.
1905 J. J. Thorburn, Admin.
1st May, 1906 Sir Walter Egerton, K.C.M.G.,
(Governor of the Amalgamated Territories).

Governors

Protectorate of Northern Nigeria

1907 Sir E. P. C. Girouard.
1909 Sir H. Hesketh Bell, K.C.M.G.
1912 Sir F. D. Lugard, G.C.M.G., C.B., D.S.O.*

Colonies and Protectorate of Southern Nigeria
(Governors and Administrators)

1907 Sir Walter Egerton, K.C.M.G.
1912 Sir F. D. Lugard, G.C.M.G., C.B., D.S.O.*

Colonies and Protectorate of Nigeria

1914 Sir F. D. Lugard, G.C.M.G., C.B., D.S.O.*
1919 Sir Hugh Clifford, G.C.M.G., G.B.E.
1926 Sir Graeme Thomson, G.C.M.G., K.C.B.
1931 Sir Donald C. Cameron, G.C.M.G., K.B.E.
1935 Sir Bernard H. Bourdillon, G.C.M.G., K.B.E.
1943 Sir Arthur F. Richards, G.C.M.G. (created Baron Milverton of Lagos and Clifton in 1947).
1947 Sir John S. Macpherson, K.C.M.G.

* Later Rt. Hon. Lord Lugard, P.C.
† Had the personal title of Governor-General.

Executive Council

Governor—Sir John S. Macpherson, K.C.M.G.

Ex-officio Members

Chief Secretary to the Government—H. M. Foot, C.M.G., O.B.E.
Chief Commissioner, Northern Provinces—Capt. E. W. Thompstone, C.M.G., M.C.
Chief Commissioner, Eastern Provinces—Sir F. B. Carr, C.M.G.
Chief Commissioner, Western Provinces — T. Hoskyns-Abrahall, C.M.G.
Attorney-General—G. L. Howe, K.C.
Financial Secretary—A. W. L. Savage, C.M.G.
Director of Medical Services—Dr. G. B. Walker, C.B.E.,
Director of Education—R. A. McL. Davidson C.M.G.

Appointed Member

Sir Adeyemo Alakija, K.B.E.
Alhaji Usman Nagogo (Emir of Katsina).
Sir Hubert E. Walker, C.B.E.
Maj.-Gen. C. R. A. Swynnerton, D.S.O.

Legislative Council

Governor—President.

Official Members

Chief Secretary to the Government.
Chief Commissioner, Western Provinces.
Chief Commissioner, Northern Provinces.
Chief Commissioner, Eastern Provinces.
Attorney-General.
Financial Secretary.
Director of Medical Services.
Development Secretary.
Director of Education.
Director of Public Works.
Director of Agriculture.
Commissioner of the Colony.
Commissioner of Labour.
Three Nominated Official Members who shall be three Residents, one from each Region, appointed by the Governor for each meeting of Legislative Council.

Nominated Unofficial Members

(a) Appointed by the Northern House of Chiefs—
Yahaya, C.B.E., Emir of Gwandu.
Alhaji Usuman Nagogo, Emir of Katsina.
Alhaji Ibrahima, Attah of Igbirra.
Sulemanu, Emir of Abuja.

(b) Appointed by the Northern House of Assembly—
Mallam Bello Kano.
Mallam Abubakar Tafawa Balewa.
Mallam Iro Katsina.
Mallam Aliyu, Makaman Bida.
Mallam Yahaya Ilorin.

(c) Appointed by the Governor from those Chiefs who are members of the Western House of Assembly—
Adereyi I, C.M.G., Oni of Ife.
Akenzua II, C.M.G., Oba of Benin.

(d) Appointed by the Western House of Assembly—
Rev. Canon S. A. Delumo.
Akinpelu Obisesan.
T. A. Odutola.
Gaius Obaseki.
(e) Appointed by the Eastern House of Assembly—
Bowari Brown.
C. D. Onyeama.
A. Ikoku.
Dr. F. A. Ibiam.
Nyong Essien.

(f) Appointed by the Governor for the Colony after consultation with the Native Authorities in the Colony—
Rev. T. A. J. Ogunbiyi, O.B.E.

(g) Appointed by the Governor to represent interests which are not otherwise adequately represented—
J. C. Lucas, to represent the interests of Shipping.
P. J. Rogers, to represent the interests of Commerce.
Major J. West, to represent the interests of Mining.

Elected Members

(a) For Lagos—
Dr. I. Olorun-Nimbe.
Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe.
Adeleke Adedoyin.

(b) For Calabar—
E. E. E. Anwan.

FOREIGN CONSULAR OFFICERS

Belgium—J. C. Lucas (Acting) (Hon. Consul).
Denmark—N. Rasmusson (Hon. Consul).
France—G. Touret (Vice-Consul); P. E. L. Gouty (Consular Agent).
Greece—K. Kappas (Hon. Vice-Consul).
Lebanon—(Vacant) (Consul).
Liberia—J. C. Lucas (Hon. Consul).
Netherlands—W. Verbeek (Hon. Consul).
Norway—B. Kirkham (Hon. Consul).
Spain—B. White (Hon. Vice-Consul (Lagos)); Don Jose Rosello Boleda (Hon. Vice-Consul (Calabar)).
Sweden—K. Rasmusson (Hon. Consul).
United States—W. S. Greene (Consul-General); J. W. Bowling (Vice-Consul).

REPRESENTATIVES OF RELIGIOUS BODIES

Anglican—

West
The Rt. Rev. Bishop L. G. Vining, Lagos; Mr. G. H. Vellacott, M.B.E., P.O. Box 78, C.M.S., Lagos—Secretary of the Yoruba C.M.S. Mission.

East
The Rt. Rev. Bishop C. J. Patterson, C.M.S., Onitsha; Rev. C. A. Forster, C.M.S., Onitsha—Secretary, Niger C.M.S. Mission.

North
The Rt. Rev. N. Sherwood Jones, P.O. Box 26, Kano; Rev. J. R. Oliver, C.M.S., Bida—Secretary, C.M.S., N. Mission.

Methodist—

West
Rev. M. O. Dada, Chairman, P.O. Box 161, Lagos.

East
Rev. Paul Kingston, Chairman, P.O. Box 99, Port Harcourt.

Church of Scotland—
Secretary, Rev. R. M. Macdonald, P.O. Box 14, Itu.

Baptist—
Secretary, Rev. I. N. Patterson, Baptist Mission, Ibadan. (From the Southern Convention of U.S.A.)

Basel Mission—
Secretary, Rev. E. Peyer, Basel Mission, Buca, Cameroons.

Church of the Brethren (American Mission)—
Rev. H. S. Kulp, Garkida, Damatura, via Jos.

Qua Iboe Mission—
Secretary, Rev. D. Currie, Ikot Edong, P.O. Abak, E. Nigeria.

The Salvation Army—
Lt.-Col. A. Salhus, P.O. Box. 125, Lagos.

Sudan United Mission—
Secretary, Mr. H. G. Farrant, S.U.M., Jos. (This mission has many branches—British, Danish, S. African, American, etc. All contactable through Mr. Farrant.)

Sudan Interior Mission—
Field Secretary at Jos.

Dutch Reformed Church Mission—
Rev. A. J. Brink, Mkar, Makurdi.

United Missionary Service—
Headquarters at Jebba.

Catholic—

The Rt. Rev. Bishop C. Heerey (Onitsha-Owerri Vicariate), Catholic Mission, Onitsha.

The Rt. Rev. Bishop L. Taylor (Lagos Vicariate), Holy Cross Mission, Lagos.

The Rt. Rev. Bishop P. Rogan (Cameroons Vicariate), Soppo, P.O. Buca.

The Rt. Rev. Bishop P. J. Kelly (Asaba-Benin Vicariate), Catholic Mission, Benin City.

The Rt. Rev. Bishop T. Hughes (Ondo-Ilorin Vicariate), Catholic Mission, Akure.

The Rt. Rev. Bishop J. Moynagh (Calabar Vicariate), Catholic Mission, Calabar.

The Rt. Rev. Monsignor W. Lumley (Jos Prefecture), Catholic Mission, Jos.

The Rt. Rev. Monsignor T. McGetterick (Ogoja Prefecture), Catholic Mission, Ogoja.

The Rt. Rev. Monsignor J. McCarthy (Kaduna Prefecture), Catholic Mission, Kaduna.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

History of Nigeria, by A. C. Burns. Allen & Unwin, 1943, 15s.

Native Administration in Nigeria, by Margery Perham. O.U.P., 1937, 17s. 6d.
Law and Authority in a Nigerian Tribe, by C. K. Meek. O.U.P., 1937, 17s. 6d.

Mad Dogs and Englishmen, by Erick Berry. Michael Joseph, 1941, 10s. 6d.

A Black Byzantium: The Kingdom of Nupe in Nigeria, by S. F. Nadel. O.U.P., 1942, 16s.

A Short History of Nigeria, by C. R. Niven. Longmans, 1942, 4s. 6d.

African Conversation Piece, by Sylvia Leith-Ross. Hutchinson, 1944, 16s.

The Native Economies of Nigeria, by Darryl Forde and Richard Scott. Faber & Faber, 1946, 25s.

Nigeria: Outline of a Colony, by C. R. Niven. Nelson, 1946, 6s.

