SARAWAK*

Situation and Area

Sarawak consists of a coastal strip some 450 miles long by 40 to 120 miles in depth on the north-west coast of the island of Borneo and has an area of about 50,000 square miles. The colony lies between the broken range of mountains, which runs south-west through the middle of Borneo, and the sea. The southern border with Dutch West Borneo is formed by another range of mountains running westerly from about the centre of the main range. In the north-east the territory of the colony encompasses the small sultanate of Brunei and its borders march with those of North Borneo.

Climate

The climate is uniformly warm and humid, the average temperature by day being 85° F. and the annual rainfall exceeding 100 inches. The seasons are not well defined, but the heaviest rains occur between October and March, the period of the north-east monsoon, when winds are strong and seas are rough. During the remainder of the year the rainfall is less, with occasional droughts of not more than four weeks' duration and clear sunny skies. The chief drawback to the climate is its lack of variety. The morning and early afternoon are generally bright and pleasant. Typhoons and cyclones are unknown but short squalls of rain and wind and thunderstorms are frequent. The prevailing winds blow from the north and north-east between October and March and from the south-west for the remainder of the year. It is advisable for European children to continue their education in a temperate climate after the age of about eight, partly for climatic reasons and partly because there are no special schools for the education of European children in Sarawak.

General Description

In general the country is divided into three main parts: an alluvial and swampy coastal plain, a mountainous interior, and, in between, undulating country of yellow sandy clay broken by occasional hills largely of limestone or sandstone or more rarely of granite. The coast is generally flat and low-lying with heavy vegetation and sandy or mud beaches. In a few places hills come down to the sea, forming coastal cliffs. The greater part of the territory, apart from cultivated areas, is still covered by dense jungle, some of which remains to be explored, particularly in the interior where a succession of steep broken hills culminate in peaks between 6,000 and 8,000 feet high. The whole country is intersected by numerous rivers, which afford the easiest and cheapest means of transport. The principal of these are the Rejang (navigable for 170 miles), the Baram (navigable for 100 miles), the Batang Lepar and the Limbang. The presence of bars at the mouths of all these rivers causes large vessels to experience difficulty in entering.

Mangrove occurs extensively near the mouths of the rivers, which are fringed by nipah palm along their lower courses in the coastal plain the banks being little above high water level. As the coastal swamps give way to rolling country the river banks rise above the normal high water level and in several rivers, notably the Rejang and the Baram, gorges and dangerous rapids occur at considerable distances from the sources.

Sarawak is essentially an agricultural country. Rubber represents about 60 per cent. of the value of the total exports. Large quantities of sago flour are also exported. Rice is cultivated extensively for local consumption. The agricultural production of the colony is almost entirely in the hands of native cultivators, and there are very few European estates. Miri, which is situated about 15 miles to the south-west of the Baram River, owes its existence to the activities of the Sarawak Oilfields, Limited. During the war the oilfield was severely damaged and the prosperous town of Miri was almost entirely destroyed. The work of reconstruction has been undertaken by the oil company with commendable vigour and the Sarawak portion of the oilfield, which extends into Brunei territory, is again in production, although on a smaller scale than formerly.

Before the war gold was worked on a commercial scale, but the progress of rehabilitation has been slow, and very few mines are at present in production.

All the non-Malay indigenous races, with the exception of the Melanaus, live in long or communal houses, which may be inhabited by anything from five to fifty or more families. The long-houses are usually constructed of wood, with pillars and sometimes floors of Borneo iron wood, a hard wood of great durability that is found in considerable quantities in the interior, and with shingle roofs of the same material. Each long-house consists of a number of "doors" or rooms, each of which contains a family. These rooms are connected by a common verandah occupied by the bachelors of the community.

Malays live in houses of sound construction and simple design, situated preferably on the banks of tidal rivers. The coastal Malays and Melanaus frequently combine agriculture with fishing. The bulk of the import and export trade is in the hands of the Chinese, who are, however, also engaged in almost every other occupation which is open to the inhabitants of the colony.

Kuching, the capital of Sarawak, in the southwest corner of the territory, is an attractively laid-out town, with a population of about 35,000, situated about 18 miles from the mouth of the Sarawak river. Its trading community is almost entirely composed of Chinese and there are large Malay villages within the municipal limits.

Sibu, the second largest town in the colony, with a population of about 7,000, is situated at the entrance to the Iban country at the head of the Rejang delta and about 80 miles from its western mouth.

History

Although Sarawak was known by name through the visits of Pigafetta to Brunei in 1521 and of Jorge de Menezes in 1526 and Gomaro Pereir in 1530, and by an early map of the East Indies by Mercator, its history as an integral State begins with the first landing in August, 1839, of...
James Brooke, an affluent young Englishman in search of adventure. At that time Sarawak was the southern province of the Malay Sultanate of Brunei. The oppression of the Sultan's viceroy had goaded the Malays and Land Dayaks resident in the area known as Sarawak Proper into revolt. James Brooke interceded in the dispute, brought about a settlement and sailed away. He returned in the following year to find that fighting had resumed, and, interceding again, at the request of the Sultan's uncle, Pengiran Muda Hashim, who had been sent to pacify the region, was rewarded for his services by being installed on 24th September, 1841, as Rajah of the territory from Cape Datu to the Samarahan river under the suzerainty of the Sultan. His appointment was ratified by a Deed signed by the Sultan at Brunei on 1st August, 1842. Three years later the Sultan renounced his rights of suzerainty over Sarawak. Thereafter for the remaining twenty-three years of his life Rajah Brooke devoted himself to the suppression of piracy and head-hunting, often with the assistance of the ships of the Royal Navy, which performed almost incredible feats of navigation and endurance. Sarawak was recognised as an Independent State by the United States of America in 1850 and by Great Britain in 1864. In 1861 the territory of Sarawak was enlarged by the Sultan's cession of all rivers and lands from the Sadong River to Kedurong Point.

The first Rajah, at his death in 1868, bequeathed to his nephew and successor, Charles Brooke, a country paternally governed with a solid foundation of mutual trust and affection between ruler and ruled. Sir James Brooke pioneered, subdued and pacified; Sir Charles Brooke, in a long reign of fifty years, built upon the foundations laid by his uncle with such conspicuous success that piracy disappeared, head-hunting was greatly reduced and the prosperity of the country increased by leaps and bounds.

Further large accretions of territory occurred in 1882, when the frontier was advanced beyond the Baram River, in 1885, when the valley of the Trusan River was ceded, and in 1890 when the Limbang River was annexed at the request of the inhabitants. In 1905 the Lawas River was purchased from the British North Chartered Company with the consent of the British Government. British protection was accorded to Sarawak in 1888.

Between 1870 and 1917 the revenue rose from $122,842 to $1,705,292, and the expenditure from $126,161 to $1,359,746. The public debt was wiped out and a considerable surplus accumulated. In 1870 imports were valued at $1,494,241 and exports at $1,328,963. In 1917 imports totalled $4,999,320 and exports $6,283,071. Roads had been constructed, pipe water supplies laid down and telephones and the wireless telegraph had been introduced.

Progress in all spheres continued during the rule of the third Rajah, Sir Charles Vyner Brooke, who succeeded his father in 1917. Medical and educational services in particular were greatly improved. In 1941, the centenary year of Brooke rule, the State was in a sound financial position with a large sum of money in reserve. As a centenary gesture the Rajah enacted a new constitution, which abrogated his absolute powers, and set the feet of his subjects on the first stage of the road to democratic self-government.

The Japanese invasion and occupation was a catastrophe. Social services and communications were neglected; education ceased to exist; health precautions were ignored; sickness and malnutrition spread throughout the State. Although Sarawak, with the exception of the oilfield area, suffered far less material damage from allied air bombardment than the neighbouring territories of Brunei and British North Borneo, all traces of its former prosperity disappeared and its inhabitants were reduced to poverty and misery. After the unconditional surrender of Japan, Australian forces entered Kuching on 11th September, 1945. For seven months Sarawak was administered by a British military administration, as a result of whose vigorous efforts supplies of essential commodities were distributed, the constabulary re-formed, and the medical and educational services reorganised. The Rajah resumed the reins of government on 15th April, 1946. It had, however, for some time been evident to him that Sarawak could not, by her own resources, regain a semblance of her former prosperity. He therefore decided that the time had come to hand the country over to the care of the British Crown, and a Bill to this effect was introduced into the Council Negri in May, 1946, and passed by a small majority. By an Order-in-Council the State of Sarawak became a British Colony on 1st July, 1946.

CONSTITUTION

In 1941 the Rajah divested himself of his autocratic authority and granted a Constitution to Sarawak by which legislative and financial authority was conferred upon the Council Negri (legislative assembly) and executive authority to the Supreme Council. The Constitution now consists of a Governor, a Supreme Council consisting of 12 members, and a Council Negri composed at present of 14 official members (including the Chief Secretary (President), Financial Secretary, the five divisional residents, the Secretary for Chinese Affairs, the Secretary for Native Affairs and five members appointed by name), 11 unofficial members and 16 standing members.

POPULATION

With the exception of enumeration proceedings conducted by a food control organisation in 1940, no census has ever been carried out. The 1940 enumeration produced the following figures:

| Europeans | 425 |
| Malays    | 92,700 |
| Sea Dayaks (Ibans) | 167,600 |
| Chinese   | 123,600 |
| Melanaus  | 36,800 |
| Land Dayaks | 37,000 |
| Indians   | 2,300 |
| Eurasians | 300 |
| Kayans    | 6,000 |
| Kedayans  | 3,300 |
| Kenyahs   | 3,700 |
| Muruts    | 4,000 |
| Others    | 12,860 |

Of these 163,997 were men, 150,670 women and 175,131 children, the remainder being 787 Nomadic Punans unclassified by sex or adult condition. The distribution of the population was as follows:—
First division ........................................... 149,564
Second division ......................................... 85,925
Third division ............................................ 172,419
Fourth division .......................................... 59,147
Fifth division ............................................. 22,743
Nomadic Punans (estimated) ......................... 787

There are indications that a substantial increase in the total population, particularly among the Chinese and Ibans, may be disclosed by the census held towards the end of 1947.

The languages in common use are English, Malay, Iban, Chinese, Land Dayak, Melanau and Kayan, but there are numerous dialects in use among the smaller tribes.

ADMINISTRATION

The Colony is divided into five divisions, which are administered by Residents, with headquarters at Kuching, Simanggang, Sibu, Miri and Limbang. These divisions are sub-divided into districts which are administered by District Officers or Native Officers. Since the territory became a Colony, Divisional and District Advisory Councils together with a Chinese Advisory Board in Kuching, have been constituted and plans are being drawn up for the establishment of Native Authorities, which will have control over their own finances.

RELIGION

The Malays are Mohammadans but, although sincere in their faith and conscientious in its observances, are by no means bigots. They are tolerant of other creeds and associate on terms of complete friendliness with those professing other religious beliefs. Many Melanaus have also accepted Islam. Anglican and Roman Catholic Missions have been working in the territory for many years, particularly in Kuching, and among the Chinese and the pagan tribes. The Borneo Evangelical Mission (inter-denominational), American Methodist Mission, Sibu, and the Seventh Day Adventist Missions also operate in various parts of the country. The Rt. Rev. the Bishop of Labuan and Sarawak and the Prefect Apostolic reside in Kuching.

CURRENCY AND BANKING

The unit of currency is the Straits Settlements dollar which is divided into 100 cents. The value of the dollar is at present fixed at two shillings and fourpence. Before the war Sarawak had its own issue of treasury notes. In order to provide a uniform currency for the invading Allied troops throughout British Borneo, an agreement was reached in 1944 that when the territories of Sarawak, Brunei, Labuan and North Borneo were reoccupied Malayan currency should be supplied for use. It was expected that the Japanese would have withdrawn most of the local currency from circulation, but when Sarawak was reoccupied, surprisingly large amounts of local currency reappeared. It was intended that, as soon as the Civil Government of the Rajah was restored, Sarawak notes should be reintroduced. But after the cession of the State to the Crown it was agreed that Sarawak notes should be gradually withdrawn as they became unfit for circulation and that fresh issues should consist of Malayan notes obtained from the Malayan Currency Commissioners. The amount of currency in circulation at the end of 1946 was estimated to be $14,583,000, of which $8,198,000 was pre-war Sarawak issue and $6,385,000 Malayan currency introduced since the re-occupation of the territory in September, 1945.

Banking facilities are afforded by the Chartered Bank of India, Australia and China which reopened the doors of its branch at Kuching on 4th February, 1946, and has also a branch in Sibu. There are also a number of Chinese Banks.

COMMUNICATIONS

Water

The rivers and sea afford the principal means of communication. The rivers are in fact the main "trunk roads" of the country. Steamer services ply between Kuching and coastal ports and also serve Sibu and other Rejang river ports. In addition numerous powered small craft, chiefly owned by Chinese, carry passengers and cargo to places further upriver and beyond their range other smaller boats driven by outboard motors make their way far into the interior. Native "perahu" of all shapes and sizes are very numerous. The "perahu" is the common man's "Baby Austin."

Regular steamer services of the Sarawak Steamship Co. and the Straits Steamship Co. run from Kuching, Sibu and Miri direct to Singapore. The tonnage of vessels entering and leaving Sarawak from and to foreign ports during the period April-December, 1946, was 167,500 and 156,000 respectively.

Air

Prior to the Japanese occupation landing grounds existed at Kuching and Miri suitable for the operation of medium aircraft. Both were heavily damaged by air bombardment, but the Kuching airfield has been repaired for use in cases of necessity and emergency. Air communication with Singapore and Labuan is at present maintained by means of Sunderland flying boats of the Royal Air Force using the Sarawak River at Pending as their landing area.

Roads

The road system is not extensive. The main centres of population are not connected by roads, freight and passenger communications between them are maintained by river and sea transport. Except in the Kuching district and at Miri unsurfaced earth roads are the general rule. Light motor vehicles are used on these roads where passable but their use is of necessity restricted.

Posts and Telegraphs

The Posts and Telegraphs Department is under the control of the Postmaster-General at Kuching. There are 35 Post Offices: Kuching, Serian, Simunjan, Bau, Lundu, Simanggang, Lingga, Engkilili, Lubok Antu, Betong, Debak, Spaoh, Pusa, Saratok, Kabong, Sibu, Rejang, Trusan, Sarikei, Binatang, Matu, Daro, Kapit, Kanowit, Meluan, Song, Mukah, Balingian, Oya, Dalat, Bintulu, Miri, Baram, Limbang, Lawas.

Postal communication is established with Europe, America, Australia, etc., via Singapore by steamers on an irregular schedule. There is also a similar steamer service to Brunei and North Borneo.

A weekly airmail service with Singapore, Labuan and Jesselton is at present maintained by R.A.F. flying boats.

There is no landline telegraph in Sarawak.
There are 19 radiotelegraph stations:—Kuching, Lundu, Simanggang, Saratok, Sibu, Sarikei, Kanowit, Kapit, Belaga, Meluan, Selalang, Matu, Makah, Balingian, Miri, Bintulu, Baram, Limbang, Lawas.

Radiotelegraph communication is also established with Singapore, Jesselton and Brunei.

Cable communication is established with countries beyond Singapore.

The telegraph rates to Empire countries are:

- Ordinary full rate (plain language per word) . . . 55 cents.
- Code (Cde) . . . 35 "
- Deferred . . . 30 "
- Government Ordinary full rate (plain language) . . . 30 "
- Government Code (Cde) . . . 20 "
- Night or Daily Letter Telegram NLT/HLT . . . $5.00
- Greetings Letter Telegram . . . $2.00

There are 40 telephone exchanges in local centres with 383 telephones connected. 275 telephones are in use in Government Offices and bungalows.

The total length of telephone lines in 617 miles in aerial cable and 1,516 on open wire circuits.

SOCIAL SERVICES

Medical

There are hospitals facilities at Kuching, Sibu and Miri, but because of the difficulty of communications, these are available to relatively few. The incidence of malaria is estimated to have increased fifteen fold since 1941. At Miri in 1946 this disease, which caused comparatively little concern in this area before the war, not only hindered work on the oilfield but caused the abandonment of a padi planting scheme. Large supplies of drugs have been obtained and vigorous measures are being taken to combat the disease and reintroduce effective control measures. There are at present twenty-two out-station dispensaries and plans have been made for a great increase in their number.

Education

There are three types of schools in Sarawak—Government Schools, Mission Schools and Chinese Schools. Prior to the war there were twenty-five Government Schools catering entirely for the Malay and Islamic Melanau population; for the remaining native races no educational provision was made, apart from a certain number of schools run by the Missionary Societies with the aid of Government grants. Since the re-occupation new schools began to open rapidly, this revival being due to a strong demand for education from all the peoples of Sarawak, especially the Ibans. The large attendance of girls is a striking feature of contemporary occupation. During the Japanese occupation large numbers of Malay school books were destroyed and much leeway remains to be made up before there will be an adequate supply of books. Plans have been made for the establishment of a Central Teachers Training College, a new Secondary School and for a novel experiment—a "longhouse" school for the training of young Iban married couples in literacy and the principles of improved rural living.

In the large Mission schools of Kuching, Sibu and Miri English is the medium of instruction. Elsewhere the local vernacular is used and English is taught as a subject.

During the Japanese occupation almost all Chinese Schools were closed, but they have responded with astonishing rapidity and at the end of 1946 over 18,000 pupils were attending 173 schools.

Labour and Welfare

The Secretary for Chinese Affairs carries out the duties of Protector of Labour. There is at present no Social Welfare Department. Social services "per se" are strictly limited and admittedly inadequate and plans have been prepared for considerable institutional and mobile services, both rural and urban. Sight, however, should not be lost of the essential fact that a community, which is widely scattered in small groups, in which the communal spirit is strong and engaged chiefly in agriculture is not the sort of society that breeds problems of want, delinquency and misused leisure. In the small economically stable towns conditions are not noticeably worse. It is proposed to introduce Trade Union Legislation in 1947. There are at present no Ordinances dealing with compensation for accidents, or sickness and old age benefits.

Further information regarding social services may be found in the Annual Report of the Colony and in the Annual Departmental Reports.

FINANCE

The economic rehabilitation of the Colony, which is mainly dependent on the volume of exports, has exceeded all expectations, both in speed and scope. The main sources of income arise from Customs Import and Export Duties, which comprise approximately two-thirds of the total revenue of the Colony, licences, taxes, internal revenue not otherwise classified which includes the revenue obtained by Government from the granting of monopolies for the sale of arrack, and revenue from Government property. Before the war one-sixth of the total of revenue was derived from gambling and opium monopolies which were abolished by the British Military Administration when Sarawak was reoccupied in 1945. The Colony has no Public Debt or Income Tax. The only direct taxes are the Dayak "Door Tax" of $1 per family per year and the Malay Head Tax of $1 which is levied on all males of working age.

A direct comparison of revenue and expenditure figures for 1946 with those of pre-war years has no real value, since the former apply to a period of economic recovery and unusually heavy expenditure on rehabilitation, and, in any event, cover a period of nine months only.

| Year | Revenue | Expenditure |
|------|---------|-------------|
| 1936 | $5,494,069 | $4,406,230 |
| 1937 | $6,317,698* | $4,104,082 |
| 1938 | $5,397,223* | $4,272,140 |
| 1939 | $5,809,572* | $4,200,269 |
| 1940 | $7,463,314 | $5,018,006 |
| 1946 | $5,950,000† | $6,540,000 |

Notes.—* Included in these figures are allocations to Revenue Replacement and Contingencies Reserve Fund later transferred to Suspense Funds arising from opium and farming monopolies revenue.

† Approximate figures only.
TRADE

|                | 1946       | 1940       |
|----------------|------------|------------|
| Total imports  | $28,796,092| $32,645,192|
| Total exports  | $27,558,673| $45,770,407|

GOVERNOR

1946 Sir Charles Noble Arden Clarke, K.C.M.G.

SUPREME COUNCIL

The Chief Secretary.
The Financial Secretary.
Mr. Ong Tiang Swee, O.B.E.
Inche Mohamed Zin (Datu Mentri).
Abang Sulaiman (Datu Amar).
Chief Justice R. Y. Hedges.
Mr. L. D. Kennedy.
Abang Haji Mustapha (Datu Bandar), O.B.E.
Abang Kipali (Datu Temonggong).
Haji Mohidin (Datu Hakim).
Mr. R. G. Aikman.
Mr. K. H. Digby.

COUNCIL NEGRI

Official Members

The Chief Secretary (President).
The Financial Secretary.
The Resident, First Division.
The Resident, Second Division.
The Resident, Third Division.
The Resident, Fourth Division.
The Resident, Fifth Division.
The Secretary for Native Affairs.
The Secretary for Chinese Affairs.
Mr. K. H. Digby (Attorney-General).
Mr. R. E. Edwards (Director of Public Works).
Mr. B. J. C. Spurway (Director of Forestry).
Abang Haji Mustapha (Datu Bandar), O.B.E.
Mr. Philip Jitam.

Unofficial Members

Mr. Ong Hap Leong.
Mr. Tan Bak Lim.
Mr. J. Owen.
Mr. D. M. Deen.
Mr. Edward Jerah, B.E.M.
Abang Haji Abdulrahim.
Mr. B. Jarrow.
Temonggong Koh, M.B.E.
Mr. William Chua Tamby (in absence of Father A. Mulder).
Datu Tuanku Taha, M.B.E.
Mr. Khoo Peng Loong.

Standing Members

Inche Mohamad Zin (Datu Mentri).
Abang Suleiman (Datu Amar).
Haji Mohidin (Datu Hakim).
Haji Nawawi (Mufti).
Abang Openg.
Abang Samsudin.
Datu Abang Zin.
Datu Abang Abu Talip.
Abang Abdul Latip.
Abang Mustapha.
Datu Abang Yan.
Datu Tuanku Mohamad.
Abang Ali.
Mohamad Zin Galau.
Abang Ahmat.
Datu Pengiran Haji Matussin.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

A History of Sarawak under Its White Rajahs, 1839-1908, by S. Baring Gould and C. A. Bampfylde. Henry Sotheran & Co., 1909, 15s.
Natural Man. A Record from Borneo, by Charles Hose. Macmillan, 1926, 30s.
Fifty Years of Romance and Research, or a Jungle-Wallah at Large, by Charles Hose. Hutchinson, 1927, 30s.
Borneo Jungle: An Account of the Oxford Expedition to Sarawak, by John Ford and others, edited by Tom Harrison. Drummond, 1938, 15s.

