SINGAPORE *

Situation and Area

Singapore Island is situated off the southern extremity of the Malay Peninsula to which it is joined by a causeway carrying a road and railway. The straits between the island and mainland are about three-quarters of a mile wide. The island is some 27 miles in length, 14 miles in breadth, and about 217 square miles in area (including the adjacent islets). The town of Singapore is situated on the southern side of the island, in latitude 1° 17' N., and longitude 103° 30' E.

* The Malayan Union (now the Federation of Malaya), Singapore, North Borneo and Sarawak, with the Protected State of Brunei were placed in May, 1946, in the sphere of authority of a Governor-General (Rt. Hon. Malcolm MacDonald), appointed to ensure the co-ordination of policy and administration throughout these territories. In May, 1948, Mr. MacDonald assumed in addition the functions previously discharged by the Special Commissioner in South East Asia (Lord Killearn) with the title of Commissioner-General. His former functions are not affected by the amalgamation.
Christmas Island is situated in the Indian Ocean about 190 miles south of the western extremity of Java, in latitude 10° 30' S., and longitude 105° 40' E. The island, which is densely wooded, has an area of about 60 square miles, and contains extensive deposits of phosphate of lime which are worked and exported.

The Cocos or Keeling Islands, a group of 27 small coral islands about 700 miles south-west of Batavia lie (except for North Island) between latitude 12° 4' to 12° 13' S., and longitude 96° 49' to 96° 56' E. The largest is five miles long and one-fourth mile wide. Only two, "Home" and "Direction" Islands, have important settlements, the latter being inhabited by the staff of Cable and Wireless, which maintains a station there. On West Island there is an airstrip which played an important part in communications during the war with Japan (the Cocos Islands, unlike the rest of the colony, were never occupied by the Japanese). Home Island houses the labour force for working the large coconut plantations on the islands. The only export is copra.

CLIMATE

The climate of Singapore is characterised by uniform temperature, high humidity and copious rainfall. The variation of temperature throughout the year is very small and the excessively high temperatures of continental tropical areas is never experienced. The average maximum temperature for the whole year is 86°F. and the average minimum temperature 75°F. The average for any one month does not vary from the annual mean by more than 2°F.

There are no well-marked dry and wet seasons. Rain falls throughout the year. Records for a number of years show that the average annual rainfall is 95 inches. December is the wettest month with a little over 10 inches, while February, May, June, July and September are dry months, with between 6½ and 7 inches. Rain falls on the average on one day in two.

The wettest year on record is 1913 with 135·92 inches, and the driest year, 1888, with 63·21 inches. Prevailing winds are southerly from May to October and northerly from November to April.

The year 1946 was exceptionally wet, the total rainfall 120·11 inches being the highest recorded since 1913. The month of September with a total fall of 16·80 inches was the wettest September on record, while December and February, with totals of 16·43 and 15·01 were wetter than any December or February for some 23 years. July with only 1·55 inches was the driest July since 1929.

GENERAL DESCRIPTION

The island, which is roughly diamond-shaped, but broken by long inlets, has no outstanding natural features. The highest point is Bukit Timah Hill (581 feet). The only large stretches of inland water are the McRitchie, Pearce and Scoletar Reservoirs. The island is fringed on the west with mangrove swamps. To the east there are stretches of low cliff; good bathing beaches are few. The adjacent islands forming part of the colony include Blakang Mati and St. John's Island which are used for Government purposes, and Pulau Brani and Pulau Bukum on which there are commercial installations. The rest are mainly inhabited by fishermen. The soil is predominantly red laterite and clay and not easily worked, though intensive market-garden culture is carried on by the Chinese in the more fertile valleys. There is only one small stretch of rice cultivation.

Singapore is primarily a commercial and strategic centre. It is the chief port for the produce of the Malay peninsula, the chief entrepot centre for south-east Asia and the Netherlands East Indies, and a focus for air and sea transport. There are also a number of secondary, processing and assembly industries. Tin smelting, the manufacture of rubber goods and the canning of locally-grown pineapples are the more important of these; products of secondary importance are beer, biscuits, soap, coconut-oil, ground-nut, furniture, asbestos packings, aluminium manufactures, etc.; but the prosperity of the colony mainly depends on the productivity and volume of trade of the surrounding territories.

HISTORY

The original city of Singapore (Lion City), said to have been founded by immigrants from Sumatra, came into prominence in the fourteenth century. From about 1377, when it was sacked by the Javanese, till 1819, there was only an insignificant fishing village on the site. In 1819, Sir Stamford Raffles was commissioned by the Governor-General of India, Lord Hastings, to establish a trading station in Rhio or Johore. His choice fell on Singapore Island and on 6th February he signed an agreement with the Sultan which gave the British the right to erect factories in any part of the Sultan's realm, while no land was to be alienated to, or treaty concluded with, any other foreign power. Suitable payment was arranged in exchange. The Dutch at first objected to this action by the British in an area which they had hitherto regarded as being in their control, but by the Treaty of London signed in 1824, all outstanding territorial differences between the two powers were settled and in the same year the Sultan of Johore ceded the island in full sovereignty and property to the East India Company.

In January, when Raffles landed in Singapore, it was little more than a derelict native village—its ancient fame a half-forgotten story—with a handful of inhabitants and practically no trade. But the native traders quickly discovered the advantages of a post so central and so free from Dutch restrictions. With trade came people. "Already," wrote Raffles in June, "a population of above 5,000 souls has collected under our flag." In 1824 (that number had at least been doubled, and 35,000 tons of shipping used the port. In 1835, the population was 30,000 and the tonnage 200,000.

In the succeeding years the phenomenal progress of his creation showed no sign of diminution. The trade figures were £2,610,440 in 1825, £13,252,175 in 1864. The population which at the first census in 1824 numbered 10,683 had risen by 1860 to 81,734 of all nationalities, but with a significant majority (over 50,000) of Chinese. Singapore had completely overshadowed its sister settlements of Malacca and Penang with which it had been incorporated in 1826 as the Straits Settlements, and it was natural that the seat of government should be transferred from Penang to Singapore in 1832.

The Straits Settlements had been put under the presidency of Bengal in 1830 and transferred to the direct control of the Governor-General in 1851. However, since the abolition of the Company's monopoly of the China trade in 1834 India was no longer interested in the Straits; it was difficult to find suitable officials for the territory and protection in war was impossible. Although the
transfer was agreed in principle in 1860 it was not until 10th August, 1866, that an act was passed to transfer the control of the Straits Settlements from the Indian Government to the Colonial Office. On 1st April, 1867 the transfer was formally effected and the Straits Settlements became a crown colony.

In the development of the Malayan hinterland Singapore played a primary part and in the resultant prosperity she had her share. It was in Singapore that European processes of tin smelting were introduced in 1887 with the result that in 1939 Singapore smelted more tin than England and Holland combined. It was in Singapore and in Perak that Hevea Brasiliensis was successfully cultivated in 1877; it was the Director of Singapore’s Botanical Gardens, Mr. Ridley, who in 1891 first exhibited cultivated rubber to the public, and though Singapore grew little rubber itself, it became the chief rubber export centre of the world, and in 1918 out of a total trade of $512,229,753 the value of rubber exported was $153,455,920. Population followed prosperity in a continuous upward curve: a century after Raffles’ landing the population within the municipal limits was estimated at 305,000, in 1931 it was 599,946, of whom 74·9 per cent were Chinese.

CONSTITUTION AND ADMINISTRATION

Prior to the loss of Malaya to the Japanese in February, 1942, the Settlement of Singapore together with the Settlements of Penang and Malacca and Labuan formed the Colony of the Straits Settlements. On the re-occupation of Malaya, Singapore and the Malay Peninsula were administered by separate branches of British military administration, but on 1st April, 1946, on the re-introduction of civil government, Singapore became a separate Crown Colony by Order in Council, and at the same time the administration of the Settlements of Malacca and Penang were included in the Malayan Union. The Order in Council made further provision for the separation from the Colony of the Territory of Labuan, which continued under military administration for the time being. The separation took place on 10th July, 1946. Co-ordination between the governments in matters of common interest has been ensured by the appointment of a Governor-General. Colonial Office statements and the white paper (Cmd. 7171) on the Federation of Malaya envisage the possibility of the eventual inclusion of Singapore within the Malayan Federation.

Form of Government

The temporary form of government at present in operation consists of a governor with an advisory council composed of ex-officio, nominated officials and nominated unofficial members, which the governor is obliged to consult. Provision has, however, been made for executive and legislative councils. The legislative council which will come into being after the elections to be held early in 1948, will consist of the governor, four ex-officio members, up to seven nominated official members, up to four nominated unofficial members, and up to nine elected members. The council will have therefore both a nominated and an unofficial majority. Of the nine elected members, three will represent the Singapore, the Chinese and the Indian chambers of commerce (one member for each). The remaining six will be elected by universal franchise of British subjects over 21, in two two-member territorial constituencies and two one-member territorial constituencies. Registration for these elections has been completed and the total number who registered reached approximately 22,000. The municipality is managed by a body of nominated unofficial commissioners not exceeding 24, under a President who is a permanent civil servant. A future two-thirds elected majority has been proposed.

For administrative purposes the municipal area (31 square miles) is distinct from the rural board area. The former is primarily residential and the latter predominantly agricultural, though housing development is proceeding at a rapid rate outside the municipal boundaries. The rural board is a nominated body presided over by the Commission of Lands, ultimate control resting, as for the municipality, with the Governor in Council.

Justice

The Courts Ordinance (Chapter 10) provides for the following courts for the administration of civil and criminal law:

(a) The Supreme Court;
(b) District Courts;
(c) Police Courts;
(d) Coroners’ Courts.

The Court of Criminal Appeal Ordinance (Chapter 11) provides for appeals from convictions in trial at assizes.

The Supreme Court is composed of the Chief Justice and three or more Puisne Judges. It is a court of record, and consists of:

(a) The High Court which exercises original criminal and civil jurisdiction, and appellate criminal and civil jurisdiction in cases tried in district and police courts; and

(b) the Court of Appeal which exercises appellate civil jurisdiction in cases tried in the High Court.

An appeal lies from the Court of Appeal and from the Court of Criminal Appeal by leave to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council.

Criminal trials at assizes are held before a judge sitting with a jury of seven persons.

Normally there are two district courts in the colony of Singapore, one for civil and the other for criminal cases. To cope with the large increase of criminal cases, two additional district courts have been established. The civil jurisdiction of a district court is limited to suits involving not more than $500 when a district judge presides, and not more than $100 when an assistant district judge presides.

There are at present seven police courts in the colony, the Governor having power to constitute as many police courts as he thinks fit. The jurisdiction of the police courts is regulated by the Criminal Procedure Code (Chapter 21) but certain additional powers and duties are conferred upon them by other ordinances.

There is also a Coroner’s Court; a coroner is appointed by the Governor either for the whole colony or for a district thereof.

The Courts Ordinance provides also for the appointment of justices of the peace. Justices of the peace have no power to try cases.

The criminal procedure of the colony is governed by the Criminal Procedure Code while civil procedure is governed by rules of court made under the Courts Ordinance.

Civil procedure in the supreme court is governed by rules of the supreme court, and civil procedure in the district courts is governed by district court rules.
POPULATION

The last census statistics available are for 1931. The estimated population however, in 1941 was 769,216, which included 77,231 Malays, 14,585 Europeans, 8,321 Eurasians, 599,659 Chinese, 59,838 Indians and 9,582 others. A census was taken in 1947, and it is expected to show an increase in total population.

RELIGION

The larger Christian communities represented in Singapore are the Church of England, the Roman Catholic, the Presbyterian, the Methodist and Salvation Army. The Anglican Bishop of Singapore, the Roman Catholic Bishop of Malacca, the Methodist (U.S.) Bishop have their headquarters in Singapore.

A variety of beliefs is found amongst the Chinese population including Buddhism, Confucianism and Taoism.

The Malays and a minority of the Indians are Muslims, whose religious interests are watched through the Muslim Advisory Board.

The majority of the Indians, being Tamils from South India, are Hindus. They have four principal temples, three controlled by the Mohammedan and Hindu Endowment Board, the fourth by the Chettiar community.

CURRENCY AND BANKING

The monetary unit is the Malayan dollar, the value of which was fixed at 2s. 4d. (sterling) a dollar on 29th January, 1906. The currency notes are fully covered by Currency Fund of which at least 20 per cent. must be in liquid form.

The following banks operate in Singapore, and form the Malayan Exchange Banks Association:

- The Chartered Bank of India, Australia and China.
- The Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation.
- The Mercantile Bank of India, Ltd.
- The Eastern Bank, Ltd.
- The National City Bank of New York.
- Netherlands Trading Society.
- Netherlands India Commercial Bank.
- Banque de l'Indochine.
- Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation, Ltd.
- Bank of China.
- The United Chinese Bank, Ltd.
- Sze Hai Tong Banking & Insurance Co., Ltd.
- The Lee Wah Bank, Ltd.
- Ban Hin Lee Bank, Ltd.
- The Kwangtung Provincial Bank.
- The Indian Bank, Ltd.
- The Indian Overseas Bank, Ltd.

COMMUNICATIONS

Postal

Postal services are organised from Kuala Lumpur on a pan-Malayan basis. Singapore has its own Controller of Posts. Within Malaya there is a daily air-mail service to Kuala Lumpur, Ipoh and Penang, and a weekly service to Kota Bharu.

Abroad there are 19 direct air mail services in operation and world-wide sea-going connections. Surface mails cannot yet be sent by regular "contract" mail ships to Europe, but are sent frequently by any reliable vessels available. The telephone system is operated by the Oriental Telephone Exchange Company. There are telephone and telegraph connections to all parts of Malaya through the pan-Malayan telecommunications department, which also operates a teletypewriter service between Kuala Lumpur and Singapore. Cable & Wireless operate cable services for overseas, except that for British Borneo which is operated by the telecommunications department. The three chief news agencies receive by Hell-Skruber system.

Railways

Railways in Malaya are operated by the Malayan Railways which has its biggest station near the docks in Singapore for the convenience of passengers travelling by sea.

Apart from railways within the Harbour Board area, there is only one stretch of railway on the island, that running to the Johore causeway and the Malayan Peninsula.

Air

Singapore has three major airfields: Changi (runway 2,000 yards), Tengah (runway 2,000 yards) and Kallang (runway 1,700 yards). Kallang is operated by the pan-Malayan department of Civil Aviation. Changi and Tengah are used by civil airlines, but operated by the R.A.F.

The following air-lines operate from and through Singapore: The B.O.A.C.-Qantas line from U.K. to Australia operates an express Lancastrian service, and a Sunderland flying-boat service. The K.L.M. line from Amsterdam to Batavia stops at Singapore. R.A.F. Transport Command operate the weekly service to Kuching (Sarawak), Labuan and Jesselton (North Borneo) and a service to Colombo. Air travel facilities to China are provided by Skyways to Hong Kong, by C.N.A.C. to the main air stations in China, and by Cathay Pacific to Hong Kong via Bangkok or Saigon. Direct service to Manila is expected soon.

Internal airways links with Kuala Lumpur, Ipoh, Penang and Kota Bharu are operated by Malayan Airways.

Shipping

Singapore harbour is practically land-locked. Its port limits cover an area of 36½ square miles, consisting of the inner harbour protected from the north-east monsoon by a mile-long granite rubble mole, the outer harbour and the western anchorage. Responsibility for the piloting, buoying and lighting of the port lie with the Government through the Master Attendant. There are efficient lighterage services to ships in the harbour.

Public wharves and dry docks which cover over 690 acres are controlled by the Singapore Harbour Board appointed by the Government. By-laws and rules and charges are made by the Board subject to the approval of the Governor-in-Council.

Shipping and Port Facilities

The principal shipping companies and agencies of liner services were re-established in 1946, but for many reasons, regular schedules could not be maintained. The volume of shipping handled was, however, so great that port capacity was strained to the limit and the tonnage of cargo handled during the year was the highest on record for any peace-time year, except 1938.

The state of the Harbour Board premises at the beginning of 1946 was deplorable. About 70 per cent. of the transit sheds had been destroyed and operations on the wharves were hampered by the bad condition of roads, railway track, rolling stock and tyres. By the end of the year the Board was operating a fleet of tugs and sufficient rolling stock to meet requirements. All transit sheds,
except those at one berth, had been rebuilt. Because of heavy demand for berths it was only possible to repair wharf and road services in the worst areas.

SOCIAL SERVICES

Education

The immediate task is to overcome the difficulties that stand in the way of a return to the pre-war standards, but at the same time a "ten-year programme" for the introduction of free primary education and the expansion of other branches is receiving study.

Education in the English language is provided in schools, both primary and more advanced, run variously by the Government, by the missions with financial aid from the Government, and privately without any grant; these schools are open to, and attended by, all races, and, as is to be expected in Singapore, a high proportion of the children attending them is Chinese. There are also over 200 Chinese-language schools, many of which, together with the few Tamil schools, receive a Government grant; and 25 Malay free schools are maintained entirely by Government. All schools are subject to Government registration and inspection. Adult evening classes are held in a variety of subjects. Higher education is provided at Raffles College and the King Edward VII College of Medicine. The former is an autonomous college founded to mark the centenary of Singapore and governed by a Council and Senate. It is in part residential and attracts students from all Malaya. Students take three-year arts and science courses, and diplomas are awarded.

In general, the educational services are struggling with the shortages of accommodation, of trained teaching staff, and of furniture, textbooks and other equipment which result from the war and the years of Japanese occupation; but great strides in rehabilitation are being made.

Health

Government operates hospitals with full modern equipment for the treatment of every kind of sickness. There was a considerable loss of equipment during the war years, but by good fortune none of the buildings suffered serious damage.

Privation and low diet have caused a grave increase in disease, particularly in tuberculosis, and hospital wards and out-patient departments have been taxed to their utmost capacity. Much preventive work has also been done in such directions as the restoration of anti-malarial drainage works, and the inspection of shipping, which is of great importance in Singapore, a great port lying among countries which have in the last few years all been subject to grave increases in infectious diseases. It says much for the vigilance of the health services that there has been no serious epidemic in Singapore.

Maternity and child-welfare centres are established in various parts of the island, and weekly clinics are also held in adapted buildings. The local population have fully realised the value of this service, and have offered to collect funds to build three new centres. Over 80,000 attendances by children are recorded in a year.

Another important service in this direction is the free distribution of dried milk to expectant and nursing mothers and to children up to the age of four.

Social Welfare

The new Department of Social Welfare, although only set up in June, 1946, has already undertaken a wide range of important services to relieve the confusion and distress prevalent at the end of the Japanese occupation; and it will, of course, continue to have many useful functions after these special problems of the present have disappeared.

Refugees and those deported from their countries to work for the Japanese have passed through camps set up by the Department on their way to homes all over South-East Asia; and the settlement of those without homes or friends to go to is also a task of the Departments.

The Missing Persons Bureau investigates disappearances during the war, and is empowered to issue death certificates and assist relatives in obtaining letters of administration. Relief in cash and kind, and aid in getting employment, is given to those whom the war has made destitute. A juvenile court has been set up in order to remove juvenile delinquents, of whom there is at present a great number in Singapore, from the forbidding atmosphere of the police courts. A boys' home, planned in accordance with up-to-date English Borstal practice in Britain, has recently been opened. Boys' clubs, to fill temporarily the gap left by the collapse of all youth movements during the occupation, have proved very popular. Another important task has been to rescue women and girls—often little more than children—who were driven into prostitution by necessity or Japanese conscription. A home where they may be trained to earn a living of a better kind has been set up, and financial aid given to charitable bodies undertaking the same work.

One of the most successful of the Department's activities has been the setting up of communal feeding centres. In people's restaurants, and in sponsored centres in factories, schools, etc., cheap but nourishing meals have been supplied; the Department is directly responsible for all aspects of the former, and gives advice and supervision in the latter. This service has been extremely popular, and has not only enabled the poorer classes to afford a good meal but, by leading them to question the necessity for the high prices charged elsewhere, has played some part in reducing food prices.

PUBLIC REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE

As the colony was only created on 1st April, 1946, there is no useful comparison with the budgets of the former Straits Settlements and the figure for 1946 only is included.

| Revenue | $31,524,000 |
|---------|-------------|
| Expenditure | $48,511,000 |

EXTERNAL TRADE

From 1st April to 31st December, 1946, imports reached the value of $571,847,802 and exports the value of $440,970,592.

It is estimated that 80 to 85 per cent. of Malaya's foreign imports and between 70 and 80 per cent. of its exports passed through the port of Singapore. The lower percentage for exports is chiefly due to direct shipments of rubber from Malayan Union (now Federation of Malaya) ports. In 1939, Singapore's percentage of the total Malayan foreign trade in merchandise was approximately 67 for imports and 55 exports.
The percentage of trade for 1946 was as follows:

| Imports | Exports | Total |
|---------|---------|-------|
| U.K.    | 13·8    | 27·1  | 20·1 |
| Other British Countries | 28·8 | 15·2 | 22·3 |
| U.S.A.  | 1·7     | 37·3  | 18·8 |
| China   | 12·1    | 2·0   | 7·3  |
| N.E.I.  | 28·8    | 6·6   | 18·2 |
| Others  | 14·8    | 11·8  | 13·3 |

Governors of the Straits Settlements and High Commissioners for the Malay States

1894 Lt.-Col. Sir Charles Bullen Hugh Mitchell, G.C.M.G.
1901 Sir Frank Athelstane Swettenham, G.C.M.G.
1904 Sir John Anderson, G.C.M.G.
1911 Sir Arthur Henderson Young, G.C.M.G., K.B.E.
1920 Sir Lawrence Nunns Guillemand, G.C.M.G., K.C.B.
1927 Sir Hugh Charles Clifford, G.C.M.G., G.B.E.
1930 Sir Cecil Clementi, G.C.M.G.
1934-46 Sir Shenton Thomas, G.C.M.G., O.B.E.

Governor of Singapore

1946 Sir Franklin Charles Gimson, K.C.M.G.

List of Members of the Advisory Council

The Governor.
The G.O.C.
The Colonial Secretary.
The Attorney-General.
The Financial Secretary.
The President, Municipal Commissioners.
The Secretary, Economic Affairs.
The Director of Education.
Sir Han Hoe Lim, C.B.E., J.P.
Tan Chin Tuan, J.P.
Dr. Abdul Samat.
E. M. F. Fergusson, J.P.
C. C. Tan.
V. Pakirisamy, J.P.
Thio Chan Bee.
R. Jumabhoy, J.P.
P. F. de Souza.
A. McLellan.

Since going to press Executive and Legislative Councils have been constituted.

Bibliography

One Hundred Years of Singapore (two volumes), general editors: W. Makepeace, G. E. Brooke, R. St. J. Braddell. Murray, 1921, 42s.

One Hundred Years' History of the Chinese in Singapore, by Song Ong Siang. Murray, 1923, 36s.

The Lights of Singapore, by R. Braddell. Methuen, 1934, 7s. 6d.

Raffles of Singapore, by R. Coupland. Collins, 1946, 7s. 6d.

