NIGERIA.

By Order in Council dated the 22nd of November, 1913, which came into operation on the 1st January, 1914, the Protectorates of Northern Nigeria and Southern Nigeria were formed into one Protectorate under the name of the Protectorate of Nigeria, and it was ordered that the Protectorate should be divided into two or more portions, each under the immediate administration of a Lieutenant-Governor. By another Order of the same date the boundaries of the Colony of Nigeria were defined, and by a third Order, which applies to the Colony and to the Protectorate, an advisory and deliberative body to be known as the Nigerian Council was established. This Council will consist of the Governor, the Members of the Executive Council, the persons from time to time lawfully discharging the functions of Residents and Commissioners of the First Class, of the three Secretaries, and of the Political Secretary to the Governor (if any), and such other persons holding office in Nigeria as the Governor in pursuance of instructions from His Majesty through a Secretary of State may from time to time appoint under the Public Seal of Nigeria, and all such persons shall be styled Official Members of the Nigerian Council; and further of the following persons not holding office in Nigeria, who shall be called Unofficial Members of the said Council:

A member of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce, and a member of the Chamber of Mines, resident in Nigeria, to be nominated respectively by those bodies, together with a member resident in Nigeria of any Chamber of Commerce which may hereafter be established at Calabar, to be similarly nominated.

Four European members, nominated by the Governor, and representative as far as may be of the Commerce, Shipping, Mining, and Banking of Nigeria.

Six native members, nominated by the Governor, and representative as far as may be of the native population both of the Coast and of the Interior.

Whenever upon any special occasion the Governor wishes to obtain the advice of any person within Nigeria touching any matters about to be brought before the Council, he may by an Instrument under the Public Seal of Nigeria appoint any such person to be, for such occasion, an extraordinary Member of the Council.

No resolution passed by the Council will have any legislative or executive authority, and the Governor will not be required to give effect to any such resolution unless he thinks fit and is authorised to do so.

By Letters Patent of the 29th of November, 1913, the office of Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Colony of Nigeria was constituted, and provision made for an Executive Council and a Legislative Council, the latter having power to establish ordinances subject to the Governor's power of veto. The Governor, with the approval of a Secretary of State, can determine from time to time what portion of the revenues collected within the Colony shall be at the disposition of the Legislative Council for appropriation to the service of the Colony, and appropriate the remainder of such revenues for services common to the Colony and Protectorate of Nigeria or for the services of the Protectorate as if it formed part of the revenues of the Protectorate.

The Executive Council will be consulted with regard both to the Colony and to the Protectorate, but the powers of the Legislative Council apply only to the Colony.

The Colony will be under an Administrator, and the Protectorate, divided into two groups of provinces—Northern and Southern—under two Lieutenant-Governors. Thus the old terms, Northern and Southern Nigeria, disappear, and the division of Southern Nigeria into three Provinces is abolished. The railway, customs, marine, judicial and legal departments and the Treasury have been amalgamated, and the posts and telegraphs will follow suit. Separate medical departments will be maintained, but with a Director of Medical and Sanitary Services for Nigeria as a whole. The seat of government will be Lagos, pending the selection of a site for a capital on the river Kaduna. A fixed grant-in-aid is contemplated of £100,000 a year for five years from April, 1913.

For the purposes of the following descriptions the old names are retained. The Civil Establishment is given so far as it has been reconstituted.

NORTHERN NIGERIA.

Situation and Area.

The old Protectorate of Northern Nigeria, comprising an area of 256,200 square miles, is bounded on the south by the Protectorate of Southern Nigeria; the boundary, which is also the limit of the zone of "trade-liquor" importation, leaves the frontier of Dahomey a little south of latitude 9°, and, running east to the borders of Illorin, follows the frontier of that State round its western and southern limits, to a point just north of Idah on the Niger; thence it runs
almost due east to meet the frontier of the German Kameruns a little south of Tarkum, practically following the 7th parallel of latitude. To the west it is bounded by the hinterland of French Dahomey, the line having been settled by the Convention of June, 1898, as modified by a subsequent agreement of 1904. The boundary, crossing the Niger 10 miles north of Illo, runs in a N.E. direction to include in the British sphere the Emirate of Sokoto, and then strikes eastwards to Lake Chad, the French Soudan being conterminous with the protectorate. On the east the 14th parallel of longitude, which nearly bisects Lake Chad, forms the boundary till it meets the south shore of Lake Chad. The Anglo-German frontier of the Kameruns impinges on Chad and from this point the boundary is formed by a line running roughly from this point to the intersection of the 6th degree of latitude with longitude 9°, but leaving Dikoe to the German administration and Yola to the British.

The Protectorate includes the Fulani Empire, of which the Sultan of Sokoto is the head, with its nominal dependencies of Kano, Nupé, Ilorin, Muri, Zaria, Adamawa, and Banchi, together with Idah and the Pagan countries of Borgu to the west of the Niger, Bornu, in the north-east towards Lake Chad, and the belt of Pagan tribes inhabiting the country south of the Benue, and lying between it and the northern frontier of Southern Nigeria. Pagan tribes also inhabit the country enclosed in the bend of the Niger between Ilorin on the west and Southern Nigeria on the south (usually known as the Kabba country), and similar tribes form a more or less continuous belt along the northern and eastern banks of the Niger. The Hausa States of the Fulani Empire are Mohammedan, and are said to have the densest population of any country in the whole African Continent—estimated roughly at about 8 millions. The Fulani appear to have been a pastoral race, which spread through the territory in the latter half of the 18th century, and conquered the Habe dynasty about 1820. The conquered race, however, maintained their independence in the broken country, and a chronic struggle was kept up which paralysed development, the Fulani on the one hand devastating large areas by slave raids, and the pagan tribes retaliating by stopping caravans. Idah, the point on the Niger where the boundary between Northern and Southern Nigeria crosses the river, is about 200 miles as the crow flies from the mouth of the river, and about half that distance above the last of the creeks which form the mouth of the Niger. Lokoja is some 50 miles further up, and is situated at the junction of the Niger and Benue. Under the Company's administration it formed the military headquarters, and it is now the principal station and garrison with the exception of the headquarters at Zungeru (near the Kaduna River). Jebba marks the limit of navigation of the Niger, where the railway bridge crosses the river.

At the end of the dry season (at the end of April) and for about three months before, the Niger is only navigable up to the mouth of the Kaduna, and for large steamers only as far as the junction of the Benue at Lokoja.

The Niger Territories generally (that is to say, Northern Nigeria and the country from Idah to the coast, now included in Southern Nigeria) were secured to Great Britain by nearly 500 treaties made by the Royal Niger Company, and recognised by the three Anglo-German Agreements of June, 1885, June, 1886, and November, 1893, and the Anglo-French Agreements of August, 1890, and June, 1898.

History.

As far back as the 17th century British traders have had mercantile depots on the mouths of the Niger and adjacent rivers and creeks, known as the Oil rivers, and in these early times the trade was mainly confined to the traffic in slaves. At this epoch the French attempted a settlement at the mouth of the Niger, but were unsuccessful, and during the 18th century British interests preponderated. At the beginning of the 19th century the exploration of the upper river—which had hitherto been supposed to be identical with the Nile or Congo—began, and Mungo Park traced its course from Bamako to Boussa, where he lost his life in the rapids. Lander in 1830 demonstrated the identity of Mungo Park's river at Bussa with the lower Niger, and followed its course to the sea. In the next two decades, 1840-60, efforts were made, both by the British Government and private individuals, as well as by French and German merchants, to develop the trade of the Niger, while our knowledge of the interior was greatly enlarged by the travels of Barth, Clapperton, Allen and others, all British or under British initiation. A consulate was founded at Lokoja, and, at the cost of much money and many lives, some progress seemed to have been made, only to result in failure and fiasco. The pioneer of these efforts was McGregor Laird, who in 1852 began to establish stations and to endeavour to secure the country for England, but these were destroyed by natives, or removed after Laird's death in 1861. The good results of his work were not, however, entirely lost. The situation in the early seventies was that there were numerous trading towns—English, French, and German—on the Oil rivers, where the trade in palm oil had begun to assume importance, the imports being chiefly confined to "spirits, guns and powder." The expeditions sent by the British Government to the higher river, and the subsidies voted by Parliament, had been withdrawn, and European intercourse with the Niger would have ceased had it not been for the perseverance of four British firms, who during the four months of high water each sent a trading steamer up the river, and soon established a few primitive stations, where the white population of Nigeria lived. These bold pioneers were at the mercy of the powerful chiefs, and gross outrages were from time to time avenged by the despatch of a light draught gunboat. "The rivalry between these firms became so keen, and the importance of turning upon each other the disfavour of the chiefs was so great, that the necessity of white traders holding together for purposes of defence was overlooked."

At the close of 1877, Mr. Goldie-Taubman—now Sir G. Taubman Goldie—visited the Niger and conceived the idea (to quote his own words), "that no lasting advance, either of commerce or civilisation, was possible unless some government were established which would give peace and security both to natives and white men." In other words that amalgamation of interests and a settled government must replace the chaotic rivalry of traders. Recognising that continuity of government on the spot was an impossibility in the climatic conditions of Nigeria, while a government such as that established by Rajah Brooke in Sarawak would not have a secure international basis, Sir George Goldie determined to secure a charter for a British Company. After
much negotiation the small British interests, which were the only ones existent on the Niger at that date, were amalgamated in the United African Company in 1879, and in 1881 a charter was applied for. The objection was raised that the capital of the Company was too small, and hence the National African Company was formed with a capital of a million sterling, with the object of opening up direct relations with the great potentates of the interior. With great energy the new company founded stations, sent out a river flotilla, and pushed up the Niger and Benue, but meanwhile the foresight of Gambetta had prompted the establishment of two French Companies, which being backed by the French Government, acquired a great influence on the Lower Niger. Of these the Compagnie du Sénégal had a capital of 600,000£., and some thirty French stations were formed, and while the French flag remained the charter could not, of course, be granted. The energy of Sir George Goldie, however, by lavish presents to chiefs, by the increase of the staff and stations, and by keen competition, secured the disappearance of the French flag just in time to announce at the Berlin Conference in 1885 that the British flag alone flew on the Niger, and to secure to Great Britain the guardianship of the international navigation rights on the Niger—while the French companies and rival British interests which had meantime grown up were absorbed in the National African Company. In April, 1885, a new danger arose from the mission of Herr Flegel to secure treaties with Sokoto and Gandu on behalf of Germany, but he was anticipated by the British Company, who sent out Mr. Thomson, and concluded treaties with those powerful emirs.

Great Britain was therefore able to conclude the Agreement of 1886 with Germany, which settled the frontiers between Nigeria and the Kameruns as far north as Yola, and in July, 1886, the long-delayed charter was granted, and the Company changed its title to that of the Royal Niger Company. Meanwhile the territories adjacent to the river had been placed under British protection.

The next decade was spent in building up an elaborate organisation, in extending the sphere acquired, and in checking inter-tribal war, pagan sacrifices and slave-raiding. The expeditions of Monteil to Lake Chad from the west, of Crampnel from the south-east, and of Mizon by way of the Niger and Benue, were checkmated, and finally, in 1890, an agreement was arrived at with France by which the line dividing the French Sudan on the north from Nigeria was drawn with certain deflections from Say, on the Niger, to Barua, on Lake Chad, and in 1893 the Kamerun boundary was extended from Yola to the south of the same lake. Its international difficulties being for the moment less acute, the Company was able to face the great internal danger which for years had threatened its existence. In 1897 the growing hostility of the great Fulah Power culminated in a plan to drive the white men out of the country. The Company had been quietly preparing, and had brought their military force to a high standard of efficiency, and they took the field (Sir George Goldie himself being present in person) with some 500 or 600 well-drilled soldiers, led by about 30 British officers, against 20,000 or 30,000 of the enemy, of whom a large proportion were Fulani cavalry. Nupé, the vast dependency of Sokoto, which had thus challenged the Company's existence, was divided by the Niger into two nearly equal halves. The rapidity of the Company's movements gave no time to Sokoto to raise additional armies, and Southern Nupé was first conquered, and then Northern Nupé after a two days' fight before the capital at Bida. Illorin, a smaller dependency, was next subdued. Prior to this Southern Nupé had been partially cleared of the Fulah slave raiders, and on the 20th June, 1897, the legal status of slavery in the Niger Territories was declared abolished by the Company. Simultaneously with this crisis another, which was to have far-reaching effects, arose. The only indeterminate frontier remaining was that to the west. The Company perceiving, in 1894, that French enterprise contemplated the annexation to Senegal and Dahomey of the Borgu country, sent out Capt. F. D. Lugard to negotiate treaties with the king or chiefs of that country. Anticipating the powerful French expeditions by only a few days, he succeeded in making treaties at the capital of Nikki, and with other semi-independent chiefs of districts. Disregarding these prior British treaties, a swarm of French expeditions spread over Borgu, and having obtained a pledge from our Government that Sir George Goldie's powerful expedition, then in the field against the Fulani, should not advance N. of 9°, they invaded Bussa, with which we had a specific treaty of many years' standing, and established themselves on the Niger at several points. At the end of 1897, in view of this situation, the British Government decided to raise a local force, and the task was confided to Colonel F. D. Lugard, who left England in March, 1898. After a period of great tension, during which the British and French troops faced each other, and a conflict was daily imminent, a convention was signed (June 14th) laying down a boundary line from the intersection of the 9th parallel with the frontier of Dahomey to Illo on the Niger, and thence to the northern frontier, which was more accurately defined, to Lake Chad, and to its junction with the German Kameruns frontier. Meanwhile the great internal source of danger had been removed by the breaking of the Fulani power, while the army of the conquering chief Rabeh, which had penetrated from the Nile Valley to Lake Chad, and had conquered Bornu, was arrested in its onward march to Kano by the news of the Company's victories, and had returned to the south of Lake Chad, where the British, French and German territories converged. The Imperial force, called the West African Frontier Force, with a "Commissioner and Commandant" at its head, and independent of the Company, was quartered in the country, with its headquarters at Jebba, and with numerous detachments holding the posts evacuated by the French throughout Borgu, and a strong garrison at Lokoja. This force consisted of two battalions of infantry, two batteries of artillery and a sapper company. It was raised and organised by Colonel Lugard, with Lieut.-Colonel Willecocks, C.M.G., D.S.O., as second in command, and consisted equally of Hausas and Yorubas, with one Nupé company.

The Royal Niger Company had, from its earliest origin, set its face against the importation of trade liquor, and had imposed in the Delta area, where alone the import was allowed, a higher duty than in the neighbouring "Niger Coast Protectorate." This had, of course, led to smuggling by natives, who, moreover, could not understand the arbitrary frontiers fixed by latitudes and longitudes, while the middle-men, who had in past years controlled the trade of the interior.
were exasperated by the loss of their accustomed profits. This culminated in January, 1896, in an attack by the natives of Brass upon the Company's station at Akassa, resulting in great loss of life and destruction of property. The British Government sent a punitive expedition against the town of Brass, and 20,000l. was paid as indemnity to the Company. Sir J. Kirk, K.C.B., G.C.M.G., was sent out as special commissioner to report on the causes which led to this outrage, and to make recommendations, and it was decided that the charter should be revoked, and that the administrative rights and powers of the Royal Niger Company should be transferred to the Crown. Steps to this end were taken at the end of 1898, when the negotiations with the French Government had been disposed of, and the transfer took place on January 1st, 1900. The terms of the arrangement made between Her Majesty's Government and the Company are given in the Parliamentary paper C. 9372. "The Company was subsequently organised as a trading company under the name of 'The Niger Company, Limited.'"

In 1902 Colonel Morland conducted an expedition as far as Lake Chad, as a result of which Bornu was brought under the administration, and early in 1903 with a force of about 800 took Kano, without any very serious fighting, and occupied Sokoto and Katsina.

The delimitations of the German and French boundaries have been completed.

**Constitution.**

In connection with the transfer to the Crown, an Order in Council was issued at the end of 1899, constituting the "Protectorate of Northern Nigeria," over the territories of the Royal Niger Co., with the exception of a portion of them, stretching from Idah to the coast, which by a contemporaneous instrument was incorporated in the Niger Coast Protectorate, and with those territories was named the "Protectorate of Southern Nigeria."

In the new administration a Governor was appointed, and the Protectorate divided into 13 Provinces, each under a Resident, with assistants. There was a Supreme Court with original and appellate jurisdiction, the Residents, who are entrusted with large powers, holding "Provincial Courts." The Chief Justice was ex-officio a puisne judge of the Supreme Court of S. Nigeria, while the Chief Justice and puisne judges of S. Nigeria were ex-officio puisne judges of the Supreme Court of Northern Nigeria. An Attorney-General acted as legal adviser to the Government. There was no Legislative or Executive Council, and the Governor had power to make laws under the name "Proclamations."

The 1st and 2nd foot, and mounted infantry battalions Northern Nigeria Regiment, West African Frontier Force, were the military force of the Protectorate.

In Sept., 1902, the head-quarters of Government were removed from Jebba to Zungeru.

**Climate and Products.**

The lower portion of the Territories in the Niger delta has a bad reputation for its climate. In this region are produced the palm oil and palm kernels which form a large portion of the exports from the Territories.

The regions further inland are stated to be much healthier, except in the Niger Valley, while their principal products are rubber, hides, ground nuts, shea butter, ivory, chillies, and various drugs. Tin is being mined in the Bauchi district, and a number of companies are at work. A minerals proclamation, fixing the terms on which licenses are granted, was issued in 1910, and a further proclamation was issued in 1913.

The chief imports are cotton goods, earthenware, hardware, salt, silks, and woollen goods. The importation of rifles, breech-loading guns, cartridges, etc., is prohibited as articles of trade, as also is the importation of spirits. The duties are only on imports, and are collected at the coast.

**Finance.**

| April-Dec., 1912 | Local revenue | £528,993 |
|-----------------|---------------|----------|
| Grant-in-aid    |               | £95,000  |
|                 |               |          |
|                 | Expenditure   | £623,993 |
|                 |               | £710,531 |

**Imports via Idah, by Commercial firms.**

| Year | Value       |
|------|-------------|
| 1911 | £360,364    |
| 1912 | £264,078    |

**Exports via Idah, by Commercial firms.**

| Year | Value       |
|------|-------------|
| 1911 | £391,777    |
| 1912 | £465,360    |

**Means of Communication.**

Lagos is connected with London by cable, and a telegraph line was constructed in 1897-98 from Lagos to Jebba, and has been extended to Lokajo, and thence to Ibi on the Benue. The telegraph line has also been carried to Zungeru, thence through Zaria to Bauchi and to Maiduguri and Kano, also through Kontagora and Yelwa to Sokoto. The line up the Benue has been continued through Amar to Yola on the German border.

Regular steamers arrive and depart from Liverpool and the West Coast of Africa every week. Communication in the Niger Basin is mainly by the Government Flotilla and the steamers of the Niger Company.

A railway was constructed by the Northern Nigeria Government from Baro on the Niger to Kano, and the first train entered Kano on the 29th March, 1911. The distance is 356 miles. The gauge is 3ft. 6ins., and the cost only to a very moderate extent exceeded the estimate of £3,000 per mile. A light railway, gauge 2ft. 6ins., was begun early in 1911, from Zaria towards Naraguta in the Bauchi district, and completed up to Rahama (88½ miles), in March, 1912.

The Baro-Kano Railway was connected at Minna with the extension of the Lagos Railway, which was constructed by the Southern Nigeria Government, and passes through Zungeru, thus establishing through communication between Lagos and Kano.

The administrations of the Lagos and Baro-Kano Railways were amalgamated on 1st January, 1913.

**Mining.**

Alluvial deposits of cassiterite have been found to occur over a larger extent of country than had been anticipated. It is found in more or less paying quantities over 16,000 square miles of territory. At the beginning of 1913 there were 199 Companies engaged in the industry, with a share capital of about four and a quarter millions sterling. During 1912, 2,611 tons were exported.
their principal products are rubber, hides, ground nuts, shea butter, ivory, chiloes, and sterling. During 191
Education.

There is a Government school at Nassarawa, near Kano, in which the principles governing the education of natives in the Egyptian Sudan are closely followed. There are numerous Musulman native schools in the Northern Provinces, in which the Mohammedan religions and secular law are taught. Suitable text books on various subjects are being compiled in Hausa for use in the schools.

High Commissioners and Governors.

1900, Sir F. D. Lugard, K.C.M.G.
1901, Mr. Wallace (acting).
1901, Sir F. D. Lugard, K.C.M.G.
1902, Colonel Morland (acting).
1902, Sir F. D. Lugard, K.C.M.G.
1903, Mr. Wallace (acting).
1903, Sir F. D. Lugard, K.C.M.G.
1905, Mr. Wallace (acting).
1905, Sir F. D. Lugard, K.C.M.G.
1906, Colonel Lowry Cole (acting).
1906, Sir W. Wallace, K.C.M.G. (acting).

Governors.

1907, Sir E. P. C. Girouard.
1908, Sir W. Wallace, K.C.M.G. (acting).
1908, Sir E. P. C. Girouard.
1909, Sir W. Wallace, K.C.M.G. (acting).
1909, Sir H. Hesketh Bell, K.C.M.G.
1911, Mr. C. L. Temple, C.M.G. (acting).
1911, Sir H. Heaketh Bell, K.C.M.G.
1912, Mr. H. S. Goldsmith, C.M.G. (acting).
1912, Mr. C. L. Temple, C.M.G. (acting).
1912, Sir F. D. Lugard, G.C.M.G., C.B., D.S.O.

Southern Nigeria.

Situation and Boundaries.

The old Colony and Protectorate of Southern Nigeria lies in that deep recess in the coast line of West Africa which is washed by the Gulf of Guinea, some five degrees north of the Equator, and is bounded on the north by the British Protectorate of Northern Nigeria, on the south by the Atlantic Ocean, on the east by the German dependency of the Cameroons and on the west by the French possession of Dahomey. Its area is estimated at 80,000 square miles or nearly two-thirds that of the United Kingdom. The total population is roughly 8,000,000.

Constitution.

By Royal Letters Patent dated 28th of February, 1906, the Colony of Southern Nigeria was formed, and was amalgamated with the Colony of Lagos and its Protectorate under one Administration, with the style of the "Colony and Protectorate of Southern Nigeria," with headquarters at Lagos.

Administration.

For purposes of administration, Southern Nigeria was divided into three provinces, namely: the Western, or Lagos, Province comprising the former Colony of Lagos and its Protectorate, with headquarters at Lagos; the Central, or Niger, Province with headquarters at Warri; and the Eastern, or Calabar, Province with headquarters at Calabar; the two latter provinces comprising what was formerly known as the Protectorate of Southern Nigeria. Each province was presided over by a Provincial Commissioner and divided into districts under the charge of District Commissioners and Assistant District Commissioners.

Law and Justice.

The laws in force in the old Protectorate of Southern Nigeria and the old Colony and Protectorate of Lagos were codified and consolidated in 1908, and published in two volumes under a Statute Law Revision Ordinance.

The Supreme Court for the whole Colony and Protectorate, presided over by the Chief Justice, holds assizes at the principal centres. There are District Courts, with limited criminal and civil jurisdiction, presided over by Commissioners, and there are Police Magistrates' Courts with similar jurisdiction at Lagos, Warri and Calabar.

The Supreme Court decides appeals from the inferior courts in civil matters, and the Chief Justice has power of revision of the decision of Commissioners in criminal cases. The Chief Justice and Puisne Judges are, ex officio, Puisne Judges of the Supreme Courts of Northern Nigeria, while the Chief Justice and Puisne Judges of Northern Nigeria are, ex officio, Puisne Judges of the Supreme Court of Southern Nigeria.

Native Councils and courts have been established throughout the districts in the Central and Eastern Provinces. The District Commissioner sits as president of the court, and in his absence the Assistant District Commissioner.

The courts have, subject to the approval of the Governor, power to make rules providing for the peace, good order and welfare of the natives. Native law is administered in all the courts in so far as it is not incompatible with any statute and not repugnant to natural justice.

The judicial system is at present being reorganised.

Post and Telegraph.

| Letters per oz. | Newspapers per 2 ozs. |
|----------------|----------------------|
| Within the Colony and Protectorate | 1d. | ½d. |
| To the United Kingdom, India, and certain Colonies | 1d. | ½d. |
| Other Postal Union Countries | 2½d. | ½d. |

Parcels to and from the United Kingdom and British Colonies in West Africa, 3 lbs. 1s., 7 lbs. 2s., 11 lbs. 3s.

Foreign Money Order systems are in operation with the United Kingdom, and countries served thereby, Northern Nigeria, Gold Coast, Sierra Leone, Gambia, and the German West African Colonies, and orders are issued for sums up to 40l. at a commission of 4d. per l.

Inland Money Order and Parcel Post systems are also in operation. The commission on Inland Money Orders is 3d. per l. The rates on Inland Parcels are 7½d., 11½d., and 1s. 3d. for 3 lbs., 7 lbs., and 11 lbs. respectively. There is also an Inland Registration system under which compensation to the extent of 120l. can be secured on prepayment of fees ranging from 2½d. to 8½d.

A Cash on Delivery Service is in operation with the United Kingdom and certain British possessions. It is for the present confined to
the offices at Lagos, Calabar, Warri, Forcados, Bonny, Opobo, and Ibadan, and the value of a packet is limited to 20l.

British Postal Orders are issued and paid throughout the Colony and Protectorate.

An Inland Government Telegraph system has now been successfully completed, whereby telegraphic communication is rendered possible between the chief centres of the whole Colony and Protectorate, without having recourse to the cable which runs from Lagos to Bonny in the Eastern Province.

There are 80 Telegraph Offices open including telegraph stations along the railway line from Lagos, via Ibadan, to Jebba in Northern Nigeria. The principal telegraphic stations in the Western Province are Lagos, Abeokuta, Ibadan, Oshogbo, Oyo, Ilesha and Epe; and those in the Central and Eastern Provinces are Ifon, Benin City, Sapele, Warri, Burutu, Forcados, Onitsha, Oguta, Owerri, Itu, Calabar, Eket, Opobo and Bonny.

Telegraph rate is ½d. per word in the Western Province with a minimum charge of 6d., and in the Central and Eastern Provinces 1½d. per word with a minimum of 1s.

2,100 miles of line are open, with 5,100 miles of wire. Further extensions are in progress.

Public Telephone exchanges are in operation at Lagos, Calabar, Opobo, and Warri, and small systems of telephonic communication are established at Abeokuta, Aro, Ibadan, Oshogbo, Onitsha, Bonny, Afikpo, and Obubra.

The African Direct Telegraph Company maintain cable communication at Bonny and Lagos, which places all the Government Telegraph Offices in touch with all parts of the globe.

Education.

The Headquarters of the Director of Education are in Lagos. Each province has an education office under an Inspector of Schools, though that office in the Western Province has been merged into the headquarters office. There are three Junior Inspectors and a number of European schoolmasters. There is a Board of Education with advisory powers in each province. Education is not compulsory. The total number of Government schools is 60, of which 9 are in the Western Province, 27 and 22 in the Central and Eastern Provinces respectively. The number of pupils on the roll in Government schools amount to 5,500, with an average attendance 3,500. The number of assisted schools is 90.

The number on the roll of assisted schools is 15,000, with an average attendance of 11,000.

In addition to the above schools a high grade secondary school has been established in Lagos by the Government, and is called the King's College. This school was built and equipped at a cost of nearly 10,000l. Pupils are prepared for London Matriculation, and a branch for instruction in commercial subjects has been instituted.

There are a number of Mohammedan schools in the Colony, but the instruction at these schools is chiefly confined to the Koran.

Several private secondary schools, which are not inspected by the Government, are in existence in the Western Province.

A code, is in force, and provides, in addition to primary and secondary education, for manual, industrial, and vernacular education.

There is a large residential Government school at Bonny in the Eastern Province, provided with a technical and industrial department, where carpentering, coopering and other crafts are taught.

There is a High School at Calabar under the management of the United Presbyterian Free Church of Scotland, styled the Hope-Waddell Institute. This school is in receipt of substantial assistance from the Government.

The Roman Catholic Mission, besides extending its work on the River Niger, has erected boys' and girls' schools at Calabar, whilst the Industrial School of this Mission at Onitsha is doing excellent work. In addition to the above a number of schools are conducted by the Church Missionary Society, the Niger Delta Pastorate Mission, the Primitive Methodist Mission, and the Onitsha Industrial Mission.

Climate and Health.

West Africa has always had, and deserved, the reputation of being so unhealthy that almost certain death would be the fate of the white man who endeavoured to make it his permanent home. And in this general condemnation Southern Nigeria has been included. Though it cannot be claimed, even at the present day, that the country is a healthy one for the European in any circumstances, it should be realised that the conditions of living have been so greatly improved during recent years that the possibilities of the place for his temporary residence have been enormously increased. Medical and sanitary engineering science have effected much in this way, especially by anti-malarial precautions through the use of mosquito-proof houses and anti-mosquito crusades, the correct use of quinine, and in the reclaiming of large areas of swamp lands by the Government, at great expense, during the last few years. In spite of this undoubted improvement in the conditions of life, however, it cannot yet be said that Southern Nigeria is a land which can ever be colonised by Europeans in raising generations of white people, and thereby populating the country, as in the cases of South Africa, Australia, and elsewhere.

Southern Nigeria may be divided into wet and dry zones comprising, respectively, territory south and north of 6° 15' north latitude with, roughly, a total yearly rainfall, in the one case of above, and in the other below, 76 inches. There are four seasons—the wet, the dry, and two tornado seasons. The wet zone, in this respect, is about a month behind the dry zone. The dry season may be said to begin about November, lasting till March, when the first tornado season occurs, whilst the wet season lasts from about May to July, followed by the second tornado season. During the months of December and January a cold north-east wind, known as the Harmattan, prevails, and is accompanied by fog.

The mean temperature at the Lagos observatory in 1912 was 81.2°, the highest shade temperature being 98° in month of November, and the lowest 69° in month of June.

The rainfall in Lagos in 1912 was 40.50 inches, and varied from 27.86 to 178.41 inches in different parts of the country.

Trade.

Southern Nigeria throughout is agricultural, and, as a kindred industry, forestry is of great and growing importance. The monarch of the Nigerian forest is, of course, the oil palm, but the country possesses an extremely valuable asset in its mahogany and rubber trees.
The soil under cultivation yields good crops of cotton, cocoa, maize, cassava, yams, ground nuts, etc. Of these the first three are exported. The mineral resources of the country are being explored by a special Mineral Survey now in progress.

The following table indicates the quantity and value of the principal exports in 1912.

| Article       | Quantity          | Value     |
|---------------|-------------------|-----------|
| Cocoa         | 7,593,711 lbs.    | £130,542  |
| Corn (maize)  | 157,979 cwts.     | 28,713    |
| Cotton lint   | 39,043 cwts.      | 102,931   |
| Cotton seed   | 4,058 tons        | 10,030    |
| Mahogany      | 15,665 logs       | 78,006    |
| Palm kernels  | 184,625 tons      | 2,797,132 |
| Palm oil      | 1,539,883 cwts.   | 1,654,933 |
| Rubber        | 1,579,199 lbs.    | 125,022   |

Shipping Entered and Cleared.

| Year | British Tonnage | Total Tonnage |
|------|-----------------|---------------|
| 1911 | 915,838         | 1,610,668     |
| 1912 | 925,611         | 1,656,913     |

Imports.

| Year | From U.K. | Total |
|------|-----------|-------|
| 1911 | £3,870,428 | £5,234,186 |
| 1912 | 4,398,368  | 6,430,601  |

Exports.

| Year | To U.K. | Total |
|------|---------|-------|
| 1911 | £2,683,591 | £5,354,101 |
| 1912 | 2,850,683  | 6,089,706  |

Currency and Banking.

All coins which, under the Coinage Acts, 1870 and 1891, are legal tender in the United Kingdom, and all subsidiary coins coined in pursuance of the provisions of His Majesty's Order in Council dated 28th July, 1906, and the amendment of the 9th September, 1907, are current in all parts of the Colony. The tender of payment of money in any part of the Colony in any of these coins, if the coins have not been illegally dealt with, or, when of gold, have not become diminished in weight by wear or otherwise so as to be of less weight than the weights specified in that behalf in the First Schedule of the Coinage Act, 1870, as the least current weight, are a legal tender, in the case of gold and silver coins for the payment of any amount, and in the case of bronze coins or of the subsidiary coins, for the payment of any amount not exceeding one shilling. The subsidiary coins in circulation are the nickel bronze penny, half-penny, and tenth of a penny.

A recent important event (in 1912) was the adoption by the Secretary of State of the recommendations of the Currency Committee appointed to consider and report on the advisability of adopting a distinctive silver currency for West Africa. In accordance with the Committee's recommendations, a new West African silver coinage of the denominations of florins, shillings, sixpences and three-pence has been coined in England and introduced into this and other West African colonies and protectorates. These coins are of the same weight and fineness as British coins of similar value.

Means of Communication.

The Port of Lagos 4,279 miles from Liverpool, is situated on a lagoon into which the larger mail steamers cannot at present enter. The bar, however, is being dredged and works carried out which will, it is hoped, enable them to do so. Large ocean-going cargo steamers have been brought safely into the harbour during 1913. The other principal ports are Sapele, Warri, Forcados, Burutu, Akassa, Brass, Degema, Bonny, Opobo and Calabar.

The British and African Steamship Company and the African Steamship Company, both controlled by Messrs. Elder Dempster & Co., of Water Street, Liverpool, have a weekly mail service to Forcados calling at Lagos, 16 days from Liverpool, and a weekly service to Calabar and ports east of Forcados. The fares from Liverpool to Lagos are 30l. 16s. 1st class and 22l. 11s. 2nd class, and 33l. 1st class and 24l. 15s. 2nd class to Forcados and ports east of it. At present mails and passengers are landed at Lagos in a branch boat; heavy cargo, as a rule, being transhipped at Forcados and returned from thence in a boat of sufficiently light draught to cross Lagos bar. The Woermann Line runs regularly from Hamburg, calling at Boulogne and Dover. Elder Dempster & Co. have a service of branch boats between Lagos and Forcados; and both Elder Dempster and the Woermann Line have an intermediate service to the various ports in Southern Nigeria. There is water communication for launches between Lagos and the Niger delta, and the Government has a limited water transport on the Niger and Cross Rivers of which the public can make use. There is also a regular weekly service from Lagos to Badagry to the west and to Epe and Siluko to the east of Lagos, as well as a launch mail service between Bonny, Brass, and Akassa via Degema and between Bonny and Opobo. (Communications are also referred to under the Western Province, and also under the Central and Eastern Provinces.)

Revenue.

| Year | Western Province | Central and Eastern Provinces | Total |
|------|------------------|-------------------------------|-------|
| 1903 | £333,370         | £426,860                      | £760,230 |
| 1904 | 338,123          | 550,013                       | 888,136 |
| 1905 | 379,688          | 572,065                       | 951,748 |
| 1906 | 424,863          | 663,864                       | 1,088,717 |
| 1907 | 540,576          | 918,978                       | 1,459,554 |
| 1908 | 688,435          | 699,540                       | 1,387,975 |
| 1909 | 611,295          | 750,596                       | 1,361,891 |
| 1910 |                  |                               | 1,933,235 |
| 1911 |                  |                               | 1,956,176 |
| 1912 |                  |                               | 2,236,412 |

Expenditure.

| Year | Western Province | Central and Eastern Provinces | Total |
|------|------------------|-------------------------------|-------|
| 1903 | 310,090          | 447,863                       | 757,953 |
| 1904 | 325,189          | 538,728                       | 863,917 |
| 1905 | 414,636          | 583,928                       | 998,564 |
| 1906 | 450,383          | 605,907                       | 1,056,290 |
| 1907 | 801,881          | 415,456                       | 1,217,337 |
| 1908 | 926,147          | 431,616                       | 1,357,763 |
| 1909 | 1,189,620        | 459,060                       | 1,648,680 |
| 1910 |                  |                               | 1,592,282* |
| 1911 |                  |                               | 1,717,259 |
| 1912 |                  |                               | 2,110,498 |

* £307,697 expenditure on Loan Works temporarily defrayed from Revenue.
THE WESTERN OR LAGOS PROVINCE.

Situation and Boundaries.

The Western, or Lagos Province, is situated on the Bight of Benin, and extends from the boundary line of Dahomey on the west, to that of the Central Province on the east, while from the sea coast it extends northward, so as to include all the Yoruba country with the exception of Ilorin, to the confines of Northern Nigeria.

It contains that part of Southern Nigeria known as the "Colony." The "Colony," as distinguished from the "Colony and Protectorate," for the most part extends from the coast line for a comparatively short distance inland, and comprises the District of Lagos, portions of the Districts of Badagri, Epe*, and Ikorodu.

The total area of the province is approximately 29,000 square miles, while that of the Colony alone is 1,300 square miles. The population of the whole province is roughly 2,250,000.

Administrative Divisions.

For administrative purposes the province is divided into the following districts, which include the independent native state of Egbaaland: Abeokuta, Badagri, Epe*, Ibadan, Ikorodu, Ilesha, Ijebu Ode, Lagos, Meko*, Ondo, Oshogbo (sub-district), Oyo* and Shaki.

History.

Kosoko, the king of Lagos, having refused to co-operate in suppressing the slave trade, was expelled by a British force in 1861, and his uncle Akitoye placed on the throne, by whom a treaty was concluded under which he bound himself to put down the slave trade. A Consul was appointed, but the treaty was not fully adhered to by Akitoye's son and successor, king Docemo, who was induced on the 6th of August, 1861, to cede his possessions to the British Crown in consideration of a pension of 1,000l. a year, which he continued to draw until his death in 1885.

By Letters Patent dated the 13th of March, 1863, the territories were erected into a separate Government.

By the charter of the 19th of February, 1866, Lagos became a part of the Government of the West African Settlements, having a separate Legislative Council, but being subject to the Governor-in-Chief at Sierra Leone.

By the charter of the 24th July, 1874, Lagos became an integral part of the Gold Coast Colony.

By further Letters Patent dated 13th January, 1886, the whole of these territories were separated from the Gold Coast Colony, and erected into a separate Colony.

By Letters Patent dated 28th February, 1906, already referred to, Lagos was amalgamated with Southern Nigeria.

In 1862, Palma and Lekki became British, and in 1863 Badagri was ceded by its chiefs. In 1879 the kingdom of Kotonu, lying to the south and east of the Denham waters, was, at the request of the king and chiefs, included in the Protectorate, and in 1883 the kingdom of Appa, lying east of Kotonu, was also brought under British jurisdiction. On the east also the Protectorate was, in 1885, extended as far as the Benin River, by the inclusion of part of the kingdom of Mahin, and of the Ogbo and Jekri territories.

In 1890, Kotonu was exchanged with the French Government for the kingdom of Pokra, lying between Porto Novo and Badagri.

In 1891 the kingdoms of Igbesa, Ado, and Ilaro were included in the Protectorate, and in 1894 Ijebu Remo was similarly dealt with, Mahin, Itebu, Ibu, and Alyesen being proclaimed Protectorate in 1896.

An expedition was sent against the Ijebus in May, 1892, which resulted in the military occupation and eventual inclusion into the Protectorate of a portion of their country, and in the opening of a most important trade route to the interior.

Ikorodu was ceded in August, 1894, and by an Order in Council, issued at the end of 1899, the Protectorate was extended to the boundaries of Northern Nigeria and to the Protectorate then known as Southern Nigeria.

Native Tribes.

The people inhabiting the Lagos or Western Province may be grouped into three main divisions:

1. The Jejis (to adopt Bouche's name) or Effons. This includes the natives of Dahomey, the Popos, Porto Novans, and other tribes.

2. The Yoruba race. The word "Yoruba" is used in two senses, firstly as indicating the tribe of Yoruba proper under the Alafin of Oyo, and secondly as a language, and even sometimes for all the numerous tribes speaking that language. Using the word in this last sense the Yoruba race may be said to include, beside the Yoruba proper (the Oyos), the Egbes, the Ijebus, the Ifes, the Aworis, the Ijeshas, the Ekitis, the Ekos or Lagosians, and the Egbados.

3. The Benins or Binis, including the Jekris and Mahins. What affinity there may be in race or language between these people and the Yorubas is not yet accurately determined.

The Jeji race are to be found in the Meko and Badagri Districts, where they merge gradually into the Yoruba tribes.

The Yoruba-speaking race is by far the most important of the three. The western limit of this people appears to be somewhere about the Anglo-French boundary, but near the border the races become much mixed. There are, for example, a considerable number of Popos, who are of the Jeji race, in Badagri and in the villages on the lagoon in the Badagri District. The inhabitants of the Mahin and Jekri countries, who are probably of the Bini race, the Binis and the people of Ifon, Owo, and Aiyede roughly mark the eastern limit of the Yoruba-speaking people. On the north they extend as far as the 9th degree of latitude.

The Binis, Jekris, and Mahins inhabit the most eastern portion of the Epe, and the eastern border of the Ondo Districts. The Binis and Jekris, a small portion of whose country only is in the Western Province, are generally considered as natives of the Central Province.

The population of the island and town of Lagos is very mixed, and in addition to the Ekos or Lagosians, it comprises a considerable number of practically every Yoruba-speaking tribe, as well as immigrants from Sierra Leone, the Gambia, the Gold Coast, Liberia (Kroomen), Hausas, etc.
Trade.

There are no manufactures except the weaving of native cloths and mats, boat and canoe building, brickmaking, pottery, bead work, ivory carving, and the working of iron.

Fishing is extensively pursued in the inland waters, the fish being dried and sent up into the interior.

Cotton planting has been commenced under the auspices of the Government, and the prospects are encouraging.

The British Cotton Growing Association have, by arrangement with the Colonial Office, taken over the management of the industry, and very considerable tracts of land at Ilugun, near Ibadan, and between Aro and Abeokuta, have been drained, cleaned and planted.

A small sugar mill has also been erected at Agbowa, in the Colony, and there seems a possibility that the sugar-cane may be extensively grown.

There is a large transit trade with Porto Novo and the leeward coast, as well as with the interior. The principal exports are palm oil and kernels, cotton goods, rubber, and mahogany. The chief imports are cotton goods, spirits, tobacco, and hardware, nearly the whole trade being with England and Germany, some exports going, however, to Brazil and France.

Chief Towns.

Lagos Town, situated on the island of the same name, is the seat of Government, and has, including Iddo and Ebute Metta, a population of about 76,000; this number includes, roughly, 500 Europeans, which comprises officials, merchants, missionaries and a few ladies. It is one of the largest and most up-to-date towns in West Africa and forms the only port along 1,000 miles of coast. Lagos has unrivalled inland water communication to the east and west by means of a network of lagoons and creeks. The port is 4,279 miles from Liverpool, 1,203 miles from Sierra Leone, 132 miles from Forcados, and 395 miles from Calabar.

Ibadan. A large and important place. Population 175,000 natives and some 50 Europeans.

Abeokuta, the capital of Egbaland, an independent native state, has a population of 51,000, including 30 to 40 Europeans.

Oyo, population 45,000. Ijebu Ode, population 22,000. Ilesha, population 16,000. Epe, population 8,000. Ondo, population 24,000. Badagri, population 7,000. Ikorodu, population 12,000. All the above towns are the headquarters of administrative districts of the same name.

Other important towns are Oshogbo (sub-district headquarters) Iwo, Ife, Ikirun, Ogbonosho, Ede, and Ila with inhabitants numbering from 80,000 to 18,000 each.

Means of Communication.

In March, 1901, the present Government railway was opened and extended from Iddo Island, which lies between Lagos Island and the mainland, to Ibadan, a distance of 123½ miles.

Recent construction has added another 182½ miles of open line, reaching Jebba in Northern Nigeria territory.

From Jebba the line was carried to a point about 25 miles beyond Zungeru (about 145 from Jebba), where a junction takes place with the pioneer line constructed by the Northern Nigeria Government, from Baro (on the Niger, 130 miles below Jebba) to Zaria and Kano, large commercial centres in the north of Northern Nigeria. The Niger is to be crossed at Jebba by a bridge to Jebba Island, and by another bridge over the northern channel of the river.

The railway terminus is on Iddo Island, which is connected by bridges with the mainland and with Lagos Island.

These bridges are the Carter Road Bridge, which extends from Lagos to Iddo Island and is 2,500 feet long, carried on steel screw piles some 100 feet long; and the Denton Railway and Road Bridge, connecting Iddo Island with the mainland and 900 feet long.

There are many fine roads constructed in the various districts of the Western Province.

During the year 1907 a Government road motor transport service of three Lecre cars and a Thornycroft lorry was inaugurated between Oyo and Ibadan, a distance of 35 miles, and has since been considerably extended and run in connection with the Railway.

Extensive harbour works are in progress with a view to making Lagos an open port. At the end of September, 1913, 7,000 feet of the Eastern Training Mole and 1,800 feet of the Western Mole had been completed.

THE CENTRAL OR NIGER PROVINCE AND THE EASTERN OR CALABAR PROVINCE.

Situation and Boundaries.

The Central and Eastern Provinces lie to the south-east of the Western Province; from that division they extend eastwards for some 270 miles to the Anglo-German boundary, and from the sea-board on the south-west and south to parallel of north latitude 7° 8′. Thus, they are bounded on the north by Northern Nigeria, on the south by the sea, on the east by the Cameroons, and on the west by the sea and the Western Province.

The area of the Central Province is 23,000 square miles, while that of the Eastern is 28,000 square miles. Conjunctly they have a population of 5,750,000.

Administrative Divisions.

For administrative purposes the Central Province is divided into the following districts:—Abo, Agbor, Asaba, Awka, Benin, Forcados, Idah, Ifon, Ubiaja, Kwale, Onitsha, Okwoga, Sapele, Udi, and Warri; and the Eastern Province as follows:—Aba, Abak, Abakaliki, Afikpo, Ahocdo, Aro Chuku, Bende, Bonny, Brass, Calabar, Degema, Eket, Ikot Ekpene, Oban, Obubra, Obudu, Ogoja, Okigwi, Opobo, Owerri and Uyo.

History.

The British Protectorate of the Niger districts (Oil Rivers Protectorate) was announced in the London Gazette of 5th June, 1885. It extended along the West Coast of Africa from a point on
the shore of the Bight of Benin about ten miles north-west of the Benin River to the Rio del Rey on the Gulf of Guinea.

The part between the Forcados River and the Nun mouth of the Niger was included in the territories administered by the Royal Niger Company under their Charter of 16th July, 1886.

By an Order in Council, dated the 13th May, 1893, the Protectorate was extended under the name of the Niger Coast Protectorate, and an administration established under Sir Claude MacDonald, K.C.M.G., K.C.B., as Imperial Commissioner and Consul-General; he was succeeded in this office, in 1896, by Sir R. Moor, K.C.M.G.

On the taking over of the territories of the Royal Niger Company in 1900 the Niger Coast Protectorate was extended so as to include the part lying between Idah on the Niger and the Coast, which had been formerly administered by the Company, and the Protectorate of Southern Nigeria was constituted under an Order in Council, dated the 27th December, 1899, the administration being transferred from the Foreign to the Colonial Office.

By Royal Letters Patent (already referred to under Western Province), dated 28th February, 1906, the Central and Eastern Provinces, then the Protectorate of Southern Nigeria, were amalgamated with the Colony and Protectorate of Lagos.

Native Tribes.

The natives of the Central and Eastern Provinces of Southern Nigeria belong to several very distinct tribes, of which the following are the most important:—The Binis, Sobos, Jekris, Igaras, Ibos, Kwas, Ijaws, Ibibios, Efiks, and Munchis.

The Binis occupy the country north of the 6th parallel, stretching to, and extending over, the boundary of the Lagos Province on the west, reaching as far as Agbor on the east, and the Ifon-Ishan district boundary on the north.

The Sobos inhabit the inland country of the Sapele and Warri Districts, are traders in palm oil and kernels and are agriculturists.

The Jekris occupy the lower part of the Benin River, part of the Warri branch of the Niger, and the western portion of the Wain district.

The Igarra country was at one time an important kingdom, extending over considerably more ground than it does at present. Kakanda, Igbira-Panda and Doma used to be its tributaries. The Igaras now extend as a distinct tribe from a little below Idah, on the left bank of the Niger to Etope, some 25 miles north, and about 50 miles inland from the river, and are, therefore, partly in Southern and partly in Northern Nigeria. Beyond these limits they are to be found, but merely as elements of a mixed population, in which their language and their special customs have been either lost or distorted.

The Ibos are an important tribe inhabiting a large tract of country on both banks of the Niger, and stretching eastward as far as the Cross River. The northern limit on the west of the Niger is somewhere about Illushi, while on the east of the river it extends to 6° 45' north latitude; the southern boundary is about Agberi or the Warri River.

South of the Ibos and east of the Opobo River are the Kwas, who inhabit the lower part of that river—on its left bank—and the lower part of the Kwa-Ibo River, and are connected closely in race and language with the people of the lower Cross River.

The Ijaws are an important people, who occupy the large portion of the Niger Delta, east of the Middleton River, south of the Warri and the Ibo country, and west of the Andoni (the river between the Bonny and main Niger). They have also a colony on the right bank of the Opobo River, which was founded there by Ja Ja.

The Ibibios occupy the right bank of the Cross River, from its mouth upwards, to Itu and the River Enyong or, in other words, the districts of Eket, Uyo and Ikot Ekpene.

The left bank of the Cross River, from its mouth upwards, to beyond Itu is occupied by the prominent Efik tribe. They are descended from the Ibibios on the opposite bank.

The Munchis inhabit a large area of country lying partly in Northern Nigeria and partly in Southern Nigeria, in about north latitude 7° and east longitude 9°. They are an important and warlike people.

Trade.

The staple product of the Central and Eastern Provinces is, and always has been, palm oil. The country is so bountifully endowed by nature with palm oil and kernels that there is little or nothing for the natives to do beyond the manual labour of gathering the fruit, and preparing in their primitive way the oil and kernels for trading purposes. The other principal articles of export are cocoa, coffee, ebony, fibre, gum-copal, ground nuts, ivory and rubber. The imports are much the same as those of the Western Province.

Chief Towns.

In the Central Province.—Warri. A most important place and the headquarters of the Central Province. The population consists of Ijaws and Sobos, with a small but influential element of Jekris. There are about 60 Europeans and 3,000 natives.

Onitsha. The district headquarters, and a most important and growing place, both from an administrative and commercial point of view, is situated on the left bank of the River Niger, just below its confluence with the Anambra River. The population is about 12,000, of which 5,000 inhabit the waterside part of the town and the remainder Onitsha Town proper.

Benin City. The headquarters of the Benin District. The town was formerly the seat of a powerful monarchy, and notorious for the terrible human sacrifices carried out by the fetish priests. In 1897, a combined naval and military expedition was sent against it to avenge the massacre of Europeans and their native followers, who were on their way to visit the place on a peace mission. Since these events, however, the people have settled down, and the town has become a very important trading centre. The population is for the most part Bini, though there are a large number of Yorubas and a few odd members of various tribes. The population is 10,000.

Asaba. At one time the capital of the Niger Company's territories and now an important station of the district of the same name. The population is 27,000. The headquarters of the Asaba District are now at Ogwashi-Uku.

Sapele. The district headquarters. The population is 2,000.
Forcados and Burutu. Forcados is situated on the left bank and near the mouth of the river of the same name. The river is the principal waterway connecting the main Niger with the sea, and the town is the chief port for the Western and Central Provinces. Five miles above the anchorage on the same bank lies Burutu, which is the receiving port for, and an enclave of the Protectorate of Northern Nigeria. The population of Forcados is 3,000, and of Burutu 2,000, the population consists mainly of Jekri, Sobo, and Ijaw people.

Other important places in the Central Province are Abo, Agbor, Awka, Idah, Ifon, Ubiaja, Kwale, Okwoga, and Udi, all of which are district headquarters.

Chief towns in the Eastern Province.—Calabar. The headquarters of the Eastern Province, and at one time the seat of Government of Southern Nigeria, is situated on the left bank of the Calabar River, a few miles above its junction with the Cross River. Calabar has a population of 14,000 natives and some 150 Europeans.

Opobo (including Opobo town). The district headquarters is situated on both banks of the Opobo River, in a most thriving trade district. The population is 19,000, and comprises Ibos, Kwas and Ogonis, while there are usually 50 Europeans in the locality.

Degema. The district headquarters and an important trade centre; lies on the left bank of the River Sombriero, about 30 miles from its mouth. In Degema and its neighbourhood there are three classes of native population—the Calabars, the Okrikas, and the Ibos, of whom there are several branches. The estimated number of inhabitants of Degema and the immediate neighbourhood, is 4,000.

Bonny. The district headquarters and an important trading place. The population consists of 3,000 natives, who are of the Ibo tribe.

Brass. The district headquarters is situated at the mouth of the Brass River, and about 72 miles west of Bonny. The approximate number of inhabitants is 1,000.

Other important places in the Eastern Province are Abe, Abakaliki, Afikpo, Ahocada, Aro Chuku, Bende, Eket, Ikom, Ikot Ekpene, Oban, Obubra, Obudu, Ogoja, Okigwi, Owerri, and Uyo, all of which are district headquarters.

Native Currency.

Cowries, manillas and brass rods are still used as currency in some parts, but further importation is prohibited, and the abolition of the native currency is being gradually effected.

Means of Communication.

The great natural highway for traffic in the Central Province, at the present time, is the Niger River, which in its course to the sea throws out a network of waterways which are navigable for native and other shallow-draft craft. And it may be taken that, however perfect the railway system may be in years to come, these natural means of transport will always remain a vast convenience to the country, and, on account of the able manner in which the natives can negotiate them, will enable the Niger and other waterways to hold their own against the railway for the internal transport of many of the purely native products. Within recent years the Government have spent large sums in the clearing of these waterways.

The Cross River, in the Eastern Province, is navigable up to and beyond the German boundary during the wet season by small steamers and launches, but during the dry season, mails and Government cargo can only be conveyed by means of canoes. The distance from Calabar to Ossindinge, beyond the German boundary, is about 242 miles. A system of regular transport for passengers and cargo at fixed rates is maintained during the wet season.

The Secretary of State has approved the construction of a railway from a point named “Port Harcourt” on a navigable creek some distance up the Bonny River to the existing railway to the south of Zaria.

Another feature has been the making of the roads connecting towns in the interior with one another and with these waterways. In this way huge strides have been made in opening up the country, and developments will become more marked every year.

Governors since 1900.

Lagos Colony.

1900 Sir G. Denton, K.C.M.G., Admin.
1901 Sir W. MacGregor, K.C.M.G., C.B.
1902 H. Reeve, C.M.G.
1903 Sir W. MacGregor, K.C.M.G., C.B.
1904 C. H. H. Moseley, C.M.G., Admin.
1904 W. Egerton, C.M.G.
1905 J. J. Thorburn, Admin.
1906 Sir W. Egerton, K.C.M.G.

High Commissioners.

Protectorate of Southern Nigeria.

1900 Sir R. Moor, K.C.M.G.
1900 Col. H. L. Galway, C.M.G., D.S.O., Admin.
1901 Sir R. Moor, K.C.M.G.
1901 L. Probyn, C.M.G., Admin.
1902 Sir R. Moor, K.C.M.G.
1903 L. Probyn, C.M.G., Admin.
1904 W. F. W. Fosbery, Admin.
1904 W. Egerton, C.M.G.
1905 Sir W. Egerton, K.C.M.G.
1906 J. J. Thorburn, Admin.
1906 Sir W. Egerton, K.C.M.G.

Governors and Administrators of the Colony and Protectorate of Southern Nigeria.

1906 Sir Walter Egerton, K.C.M.G.
1906 W. F. W. Fosbery, C.M.G., Admin.
1906 Sir Walter Egerton, K.C.M.G.
1907 J. J. Thorburn, C.M.G., Admin.
1907 Sir Walter Egerton, K.C.M.G.
1908 Sir Walter Egerton, K.C.M.G.
1908 J. J. Thorburn, C.M.G., Admin.
1909 J. J. Thorburn, C.M.G., Admin.
1909 Sir Walter Egerton, K.C.M.G.
1910 Sir Walter Egerton, K.C.M.G.
1910 J. J. Thorburn, C.M.G., Admin.
1910 Sir Walter Egerton, K.C.M.G.
1911 A. G. Boyle, C.M.G., Admin.
1911 Sir Walter Egerton, K.C.M.G.
1912 F. S. James, C.M.G., Admin.
NIGERIA.

Executive Council of Nigeria.

The Governor-General.
The Lieutenant-Governor of the Southern Provinces.
The Lieutenant-Governor of the Northern Provinces.
The Administrator of the Colony.
The Attorney-General.
The Director of Railways and Works.
The Commandant of the Troops.
The Director of Medical and Sanitary Services.
The Treasurer.
The Director of Marine.
The Comptroller of Customs.

Legislative Council of the Colony.

The Governor General.
The Administrator of the Colony.
The Legal Adviser.
The Assistant Treasurer.
The Harbour Master.
The Commissioner of Lands.
The Commercial Intelligence Officer.

Unofficial Members.

Reginald Little, Esq.
R. McNeill, Esq.
C. Sapara Williams, Esq.
Kitoyi Ajasa, Esq.

Civil Establishment.

Governor-General and Commander-in-Chief, Sir F. D. Lugard, G.C.M.G., C.B., D.S.O., 6,000l., duty pay, 1,500l.

Political Secretary and Personal Assistant to Governor and Commander-in-Chief, Major E. J. Lugard, D.S.O., 800l. to 900l. by 25l., duty allowance, 160l.

Private Secretary and extra Aide-de-Camp (vacant).

SECRETARIAT.

Central.

Secretary, D. C. Cameron, 800l. to 1,000l. by 25l., duty 160l.

First Assistant Secretary, W. Scott Evans, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty 100l.

Two Second Assistant Secretaries, Capt. C. T. Lawrence, T. St. C. Harrison, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty 80l.

Three Junior Assistant Secretaries, R. de M. Young, P. E. M. Richards (one vacancy), 300l. to 400l. by 15l.

Southern Provinces.

Secretary, Major H. C. Moorhouse, D.S.O., 800l. to 1,000 by 25l., duty 160l.

Two First Assistant Secretaries, G. G. Bell, E. W. Cooks, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty 100l.

Three Second Assistant Secretaries, J. St. V. Hand, H. O. S. Wright, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty 80l.

Four Junior Assistant Secretaries, O. G. Carter, H. de B. Beuley, J. S. Ross, M. D. H. Lyon, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.

Confidential Clerk, A. C. E. Darke, 250l. to 400l. by 15l.

Northern Provinces.

Secretary, G. R. Matthews, 700l. to 900l. by 25l., duty 140l.

Two First Assistant Secretaries, F. F. Hopkins, B. Hodges, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty 100l.

Three Second Assistant Secretaries, E. A. Weston, G. O. Nugent, M. J. de la P. Beresford, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty 80l.

Three Junior Assistant Secretaries, H. M. Irwin, A. D. Hamlyn, F. L. C. Belmar, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.

Confidential Clerk, E. C. Pickwoad, 250l. to 400l. by 15l.

Colony.

Second Assistant Secretary, F. A. Clinch, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Two Junior Assistant Secretaries, A. D. A. MacGregor (one vacancy), 300l. to 400l. by 15l.

Administrative and Political Department.

Two Superintendents of Native Revenue, E. J. Arnett, H. R. Palmer, 700l. to 800l. by 25l., duty, 140l.

Northern Provinces.

Five First Class Residents or Commissioners, H. S. Goldsmith, C.M.G., Capt. U. F. Ruxton, W. F. Gowers, F. B. Gall (one vacancy), 800l. to 1,000l. by 25l., duty, 160l.

Fifteen Second Class Residents or Commissioners, Major W. S. Sharpe, C.M.G., Major H. D. Larymore, C.M.G., Major J. E. C. Blakeney, J. A. Ley-Greaves, Capt. G. Anderson, E. C. Duff, Major W. H. Browne, D.S.O., G. W. Webster, Capt. J. M. Fremantle, J. C. C. P. Sciortino, C. F. Rowe, E. G. M. Dupigny, K. V. Elphinstone, G. Malcolm, C. O. Migeod, 600l. to 700l. by 25l., duty 120l.

Sixteen First Class District Officers, D. Cator, F. Dwyer, G. N. Vertue, J. W. Gill, W. B. Thomson, R. McAllister, H. de C. Matthews, Capt. P. Lonsdale, R. B. Brooks, Capt. C. F. Gordon, Capt. H. D. Foulkes, E. H. B. Laing, Capt. F. Byng-Hall, H. S. W. Edwardes, A. C. G. Hastings, B. D. Byfield, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty, 100l.

Thirty-Two Second Class District Officers, H. Ryan, M. L. Liddard, A. C. Francis, W. K. Fraser, H. W. Langworthy, G. J. F. Tomlinson, Capt. H. L. Norton-Trail, C. C. Yates, P. A. Benton, A. Campbell-Irons, M. P. Porch, G. S. Browne, B. E. M. Waters, Capt. T. W. P. Dyer, T. F. Carlyle, C. Wightwick, L. Blake, J. H. C. Elder, N. M. Gepp, Major C. A. Booth, Capt. G. Secombe, S. H. P. Vereker, A. H. Groom, Capt. S. C. Taylor, H. E. W. Boivill, H. F. C. Holme, R. N. Pike, D. Hollis, J. F. Fitzpatrick, R. Scott-Chapman, Capt. E. A. Brackenbury (one vacancy), 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Sixty-four Assistant District Officers, Capt. C. V. Boyle, Capt. J. ff. Hopkinson, Capt. A. E. Churcher, Major F. Edgar, H. Q. Glenny, J. C. O. Clarke, W. D. K. Mair, J. A. Silcock, T. H. Haughton, C. A. Woodhouse, C. E. Boyd, St. C. E. M. Stobart, A. H. D. Paul, T. A. G. Budgen, Y. Kirkpatrick, Capt. B. B. Knight, T. C. Newton, H. F. Backwell, H. B. Hermon-Hodge, H. M. Brice-Smith, C. M. Dunn, H. O. Lindsell, G. L. Monk, H. Morgan-Owen, W. E. Slingsby, P. de Putron, K. Hamilton, F. E.
Maltby, H. H. Middleton, H. J. G. S. Miller-Stirling, W. Morgan, R. M. Blackwood, J. Finch, J. B. I. Mackay, J. C. Walker, Lieut. G. L. Unlaeke, H. W. Cowper, H. F. Mathews, 2nd Lieut. J. N. Smith, H. B. James, J. H. M. Molyneux, G. J. Lethem, V. F. Biscoe, Lieut. A. L. Auchinleck, W. C. C. Dunlop, H. A. Prankerd, G. Macgregor, P. R. Diggle, E. S. Pembleton, G. C. Geraty, M. C. Greene, C. N. Monsell, C. K. Meek, H. Cadman, Lieut. D. Greig, R. N., H. E. Bellew, H. S. Smith, Lieut. N. C. S. Simson, W. H. Sykes, K. L. Hall, C. J. Chaytor, Capt. J. F. S. Gordon, H. P. Frith, E. V. Rochfort Rae, W. C. Moore, J. P. Higgs, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.

SOUTHERN PROVINCES.

Three First Class Residents or Commissioners, H. Bedwell, C.M.G., R. A. Roberts, Dr. J. C. Maxwell, C.M.G., 800l. to 1,000l. by 25l., duty, 160l.

Twelve Second Class Residents or Commissioners, *A. B. Harcourt, I.S.O., *W. E. B. Copland-Crawford, Capt. W. G. Ambrose, Capt. C. H. Elgee, H. M. Douglas, J. Watt, R. D. N. Raikes, P. V. Young, Capt. W. A. Ross, Capt. A. W. Butterworth, W. C. Syer, E. D. Simpson, 600l. to 700l. by 25l., duty 120l.

Fifteen First Class District Officers, A. W. Biddell, C. Hornby-Porter, H. F. Duncombe, C. Partridge, A. L. C. Laborde, Capt. L. E. H. Humfrey, S. W. Sproston, Capt. J. Dayrell, Major H. O. Swinston, J. M. Binny, E. Dayrell, H. B. Mansfield, R. Hargrove, S. M. Grier, T. W. Dann, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty, 100l.

Thirty Second Class District Officers, Capt. W. Ross-Brown, Major S. M. Wood, D. E. Price, A. E. Hanson, W. W. Stubbs, Capt. A. R. Myton, J. H. M. Whitehead, H. P. Chamley, Capt. R. M. Heron, F. Hives, C. A. Pyke, Capt. F. M. Leigh-Lye, Capt. M. H. Correllis, F. Sinclair, P. A. Talbot, H. R. H. Crawford, G. St. L. Hopkinson, E. B. Dawson, H. Dene, E. C. Palmer, F. H. Ingles, Capt. H. S. Burrough, E. M. Falk, W. B. Rumann, W. H. Cooke, J. M. Pollen, B. G. Wood, G. F. Hodgson, F. L. Tabor, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Sixty Assistant District Officers, Capt. J. G. Lyons, F. B. Adams, F. H. Rosedale, Capt. A. G. M. Norton-Harper, Capt. T. C. Richardson, Lieut. F. P. Lynch, Capt. R. W. F. Cotgrave, G. S. Podevin, F. N. Ashley, M. S. Cocklin, P. J. Gardner, F. S. Rising, E. W. P. Birch, N. C. Duncan, H. Lovering, J. A. Gray, J. H. Piper, 2nd Lieut. E. B. Waution, W. E. Hunt, Lieut. J. P. S. Brown, Capt. G. C. Corry-Smith, J. D. Thomson, Capt. J. Wyndham, G. K. Given, M. Macalren, H. Jones, A. L. Weir, R. H. J. Sasse, R. W. M. Dundas, H. G. Aveling, G. S. Hughes, J. G. Lawton, Lieut. F. S. Williams-Thomas, O. W. Firth, R. F. Gaunt, G. H. Findlay, A. R. Wittmann, J. W. C. Rutherfoord, L. G. Grant, Lieut. A. R. W. Livingstone, C. P. Hazard, R. O. F. Husband, E. E. Potter, M. MacGregor, A. E. F. Murray, Lieut. H. Webber, H. T. B. Dew, G. E. Murphy, H. M. Ward Price, J. Aitken, G. C. Ewen, R. H. Lapage, A. A. des V. Ewing, Lieut. G. N. Heathcote, R.E., R. L. Archer, J. H. Kirk, H. D. La Mothe, F. S. Purchas, Lieut. H. K. F. Nailer, J. H. Dodds, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.

* These two with personal salaries.

Treasury.

Treasurer (vacant), 1,000l. to 1,200l. by 25l., duty 200l.

Two Assistant Treasurers, J. H. D. Bratt, W. M. Steele, 600l. to 700l. by 25l., duty 120l.

Two Treasury Assistants, Grade I., J. A. P. Lambert, T. B. Phillips, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty 100l.

Four Treasury Assistants, Grade II., C. L. Anderson, C. W. Leese, G. F. Price, J. F. Blakely, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Fifteen Treasury Assistants, Grade III., A. E. Benson, E. Cross, A. H. Hodges, P. C. Thompson, H. P. Frye, J. Alexander, R. W. Nixon, J. N. Hill, G. V. Evans, S. McCullagh, C. R. E. Munro, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.

Supernumerary, Capt. D. L. L. A. Wallbach, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty 100l.

Customs.

Comptroller, T. F. Burrowes, 900l. to 1,100l. by 25l., duty, 180l.

Four Collectors, S. C. O. Pontifex, W. K. Duncombe, J. D. M. Stewart, G. E. H. Migeod, 500l. to 700l. by 20l., duty, 100l.

Six Superintendents, C. H. Chambers, C. J. E. P. Austin, N. V. S. Solomon, G. R. Wingate, E. R. V. Adams, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Thirteen Superintendents, 2nd grade, G. C. M. May, C. A. Harragin, J. W. Cowper, G. A. Tengely, F. K. Eggin, J. D. B. Sealy, A. S. Turpin, K. S. Martin, R. L. Payne, J. E. Messer, 300l. to 400l. by 20l.; W. F. O'Toole, A. C. Burns, F. de F. Daniel, 300l. to 400l. by 15l.

Three Wharfingers, T. Broadhurst, W. Ransley, 250l. to 300l. by 10l.

Judicial.

Chief Justice, Sir E. A. Speed, 1,600l., duty 320l.

Four Puisne Judges, W. H. Stoker, K.C., A. F. C. Weber, J. E. Green (one vacancy), 1,000l., duty 200l.

Legal.

Attorney-General, R. M. Combe, 1,400l., duty 280l.

Two Crown Prosecutors, J. C. Craven, M. L. Tew, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty 100l.

Three Legal Advisers, R. J. B. Ross, J. M. M. Dunlop, T. D. Maxwell, 600l. to 700l. by 25l., duty 120l.

Magistracy.

Two Station Magistrates, 1st Grade (vacant), 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty 100l.

Six Station Magistrates, 2nd Grade, J. C. Cotton, E. G. Smith, H. C. Hall, H. S. Berkeley, W. B. Gray (one vacancy), 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty 80l.

Marine.

Director, Lieut. H. A. Child, R.N. (retired), 1,000l., duty, 200l.

Deputy Director, Lieut. J. Percival, R.N.R., 700l. to 900l. by 25l., duty, 140l.

Superintendent, Lieut. C. Elliott, R.N.R., 600l. to 700l. by 20l., duty, 120l.

Two Senior Marine Officers, 1st grade, Lieut. C. H. E. Crosthwait, R.N.R., Commr. A. B. Crose, R.N.R. (retired), 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty, 100l.

† Appointments subsequent to August 11th, 1911, to carry increments, 15l.
Five Senior Marine Officers, 2nd grade, Lieut. H. C. V. B. Cheetham, R.N.R., Lieut. T. E. Day, R.N.R., Lieut. R. H. W. Hughes, R.N.R., P. Cox, Lieut. J. D. Wilson, R.N.R., 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Senior Official Pilot, J. L. Hughes, 400l. to 500l. by 20l.

Junior Official Pilot, H. G. Cheetham, 300l. to 400l. by 10l.

Eighteen Marine Officers, Lieut. A. Greenstock, R.N.R., Lieut. H. A. Edwards, R.N.R., Lieut. P. D. Henderson, R.N.R., Lieut. A. R. P. Martin, R.N.R., Lieut. J. Burn, R.N.R., Lieut. J. H. Fairweather, R.N.R., Lieut. J. Doyle, Lieut. A. M. P. Ford, R.N.R., Lieut. L. J. Hall, R.N.R., Lieut. A. S. Woodward, R.N.R., Lieut. A. W. Hughes, R.N.R., Lieut. R. H. Rojas, R.N.R., Lieut. R. G. Cross, R.N.R., 300l. to 400l. by 20l.; A. E. W. Cripps, Lieut. A. W. Hunt, R.N.R., Lieut. A. Purdon, R.N.R., Lieut. E. P. Nosworthy, R.N.R., Lieut. W. F. Pearce, R.N.R., Lieut. E. M. Hawkins, R.N.R., 300l. to 400l. by 10l.

Superintendent Engineer, G. Lumley, 600l. to 800l. by 25l., duty, 120l.

Two Senior Engineers, M. M. Fitzpatrick, C. R. N. Molineux, 500l. to 600l. by 20l., duty, 100l.

Four Engineers, J. F. Alder, A. E. Furlong, D. Tyson, J. H. Walton, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Designer and Builder, J. A. Houston, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Eleven Assistant Engineers, L. J. Govier, T. B. Dawson, J. Sullivan, W. J. Lapper, W. R. Watson, 300l. to 400l. by 20l.; J. Foggett, E. D. Walker, W. Kitchen, J. L. Lee, H. L. Rae, 300l. to 400l. by 10l.

Two Accountants, S. Ray, W. Story, 400l. to 500l. by 20l., duty, 80l.

Two Assistant Accountants, 2nd grade, G. W. Gibb, E. N. Follwell, 300l. to 350l. by 10l.

Two Assistant Accountants, 3rd grade, R. H. Griffiths, E. N. Hopkins, 250l. to 300l. by 10l.

Three Storekeepers, H. J. Morley, W. C. Fairhurst, 250l. to 300l. by 10l.

Medical Department.

Director of Medical and Sanitary Services (vacant).

Two Principal Medical Officers, F. Manning, T. Hood, 1,000l., and 200l. duty pay.

Three Senior Medical Officers, Grade I., E. A. Chartres, C. R. Chichester, W. H. G. H. Best, 800l. to 900l., and 160l. duty pay.

Three Senior Medical Officers, Grade II., C. F. Watson, W. H. A. Gordon-Hall, W. I. Taylor, 700l. to 800l., and 140l. duty pay.

Six Senior Medical Officers, Grade III., W. F. Macfarlane, C. E. S. Watson, D. Burrows, J. H. Collier, H. P. Lobb, M. E. O'Dea, 600l. to 700l., and 120l. duty pay.

* Appointments subsequent to August 11th, 1911, to carry increments, 15l.

† Draws 60l. "charge allowance" while stationed at Brute.

‡ Seconded under Bolivian Government.

§ On Scale 300l. to 350l. by 10l.

Medical Officers, F. W. Chesnaye, A. W. S. Smythe, F. J. A. Baldwin, T. B. Adam, E. C. Adams, J. B. Bate, G. Hungerford, D. A. Ashton, J. C. Franklin, G. R. Twomey, A. C. Parsons, R. W. Gray, M. F. Ellis, E. H. Tipper, H. G. McKinney, J. Currie, G. B. Norman, J. C. M. Bailey, H. R. Ellis, J. M. Dalziel, R. F. Williams, E. B. Thompson, W. D. Inness, J. S. Smith, D. Mackinnon, H. L. Burgess, J. J. Moore, A. J. T. Swann, B. Moiser, G. J. Pirie, E. J. J. Tynan, H. M. Newport, A. H. Wilson, T. M. R. Leonard, C. W. McLeay, J. M. W. Pollard, W. A. Trumper, T. R. Beale Browne, Capt. F. E. Bissell, G. Beatty, T. L. Craig, J. H. McKay, H. R. Morehead, F. W. McCay, G. J. Porteous, A. E. Neale, G. Wilson, S. L. G. D. Maclaing, T. H. Suffern, A. W. H. Grant, W. S. Clark, J. R. P. Allin, T. Hood-Rankin, C. W. O'Keeffe, W. H. Sieger, W. H. Peacock, R. C. Macpherson, A. Hutton, J. Lindsay, G. H. Gallagher, J. W. S. Macfie, F. Ross, C. G. Grey, J. P. B. Snell, H. C. Jeffreys, L. H. Booth, E. L. Sieger, A. J. M. Crichton, R. H. Brierley, L. W. Davies, E. C. Braithwaite, B. J. Courtney, H. R. M. Ferguson, W. T. Martyn-Clark, E. J. Wyler, B. A. Percival, E. J. J. Quirk, J. W. Thomson, R. Willan, W. G. Cobb, W. B. Johnson, K. Manson, R. H. Nolan, L. Doudney, C. Kelshall, P. W. Black, E. L. Anderson, T. R. Sandeman, W. R. Parkinson, J. E. L. Johnston, J. C. C. Hogan, J. A. Beattie, J. M. Benson, F. M. P. Rice, A. A. Grieve, D. T. Birt, C. J. H. Pearson, B. W. F. Wood, H. North, W. E. Glover, H. H. Stewart, W. E. S. Digby, J. W. B. Hanington, 500l. to 600l. and 400l. to 500l.

Government Chemist, W. Ralston, 500l., and 50l. personal.

European Nurses, M. M. Graham, M. A. Ward, J. Grewer, J. A. Clark, J. McCotter, E. K. Nevill, L. M. Single, E. Taylor, J. Y. Mathews, F. Jagues, M. E. Thomson, R. M. Robinson, E. R. Elliot, E. M. Phillips, I. J. Evans, M. G. Bathgate, C. E. Amos, D. E. M. Sturges, G. Coupe, A. M. Poultier, R. M. Burns, E. E. Daglin, E. M. Foster, N. Seaton, V. I. Shirttiff, L. C. Benedict, G. Mackenzie, G. D. B. Pearson, F. M. Day.

Senior Sanitary Officers, J. A. Pickels, M. C. Blair, 800l. to 900l., with 160l. duty allowance.

Sanitary Officers, R. Laurie, H. A. Foy, 600l. to 700l., with 120l. duty pay.

Director of the Medical Research Institute, Lagos, A. Connal.

Assistant Bacteriologist, H. S. Coghill.

Chief Dispenser and Storekeeper, Sergt. W. C. Hughes, R.A.M.C., 300l. by 10l. to 350l.

Two Staff Sergeants, Sergt.T. E. Oliver, R.A.M.C., Staff Sergt. J. Moore, R.A.M.C., 162l.

Ten Sergeants, Sergts. J. D. Cameron, R.A.M.C., E. A. Lane, R.A.M.C., 150l.; Staff-Sergt. F. S. Flint, R.A.M.C., Sergts. A. H. Godfrey, R.A.M.C., W. Ross, R.A.M.C., J. E. Crawley, R.A.M.C., M. Stroud, R.A.M.C., R. E. Harvey, R.A.M.C., M. C. Quinlan, R.A.M.C., P. McConn, R.A.M.C., 144l.

Male Nurse, J. W. Vincent, 180l. by 10l. to 250l.
Posts and Telegraphs.

P.M.G., J. Somerville, 700l. by 25l. to 900l., duty, 140l.
Assistant P.M.G., H. M. Woolley, 600l. by 25l. to 700l., duty, 120l.
Accountant, G. F. Sharp, 300l. by 15l. to 400l.
Four Postmasters, H. J. Harris, W. A. Flacke, 300l. by 20l. to 400l.; W. F. Storm, V. J. Monplaisir, 300l. by 15l. to 400l.
Engineer in Chief, P. B. Lawson, 600l. by 25l. to 700l., duty, 120l.
Assistant Engineer in Chief, Maj. J. J. F. O'Shaughnessy, 500l. by 20l. to 600l., duty, 120l.

Southern Provinces.

Superintendent, H. W. Bennett, 400l. by 20l. to 500l., duty, 80l.
Four Assistant Superintendents, H. T. Bowker-Booker, F. J. Head, 300l. by 20l. to 400l., duty 60l.* (for 2); R. R. G. Mann, 300l. by 15l. to 400l.; E. T. Holland, 300l. by 10l. to 350l.
Accountant, F. J. Hughes, 300l. by 20l. to 400l.*
Eleven Inspectors, R. Heaps, J. F. Dyson, A. E. Blatchford, J. E. Hisdon, J. H. O'Callaghan, C. J. O'Callaghan, G. D. Rousseau, O. Jones, J. McCreaith, W. T. Smith, 250l. by 10l. to 300l.
Four Mechanics, T. Brandon, 300l.; E. D. Gledall, 250l. by 10l. to 300l.

Northern Provinces.

Deputy P.M.G., W. Hudson, 400l. by 20l. to 500l., duty, 80l.
Five District Superintendents, G. F. Mason, W. J. O'Hara, M. McGilvray, J. A. Hudson, 300l. by 15l. to 400l.
Accountant, R. H. Long, 300l. by 10l. to 350l.
Two Mechanics, F. Pugh, 300l. by 10l. to 350l.; H. E. Style, 250l. by 10l. to 300l.
Two Telegraph Inspectors, 1st Grade, A. E. Dawson, C. E. Hare, 300l. by 10l. to 350l.
Seven Telegraph Inspectors, 2nd Grade, J. H. Hunt, A. C. Shipway, C. Townsend, C. P. Willa, E. Cork, 250l. by 10l. to 300l.

NORTHERN PROVINCES.

Audit.

Auditor, E. H. Morris, 500l. by 20l. to 600l., duty, 100l.
Five Assistant Auditors, J. D. M. Bourne, H. C. G. Bridger, H. Gush, P. L. Collisson, N. A. W. Hine, 300l. by 15l. to 400l.

Police.

Inspector-General and Sheriff, Capt. A. E. Johnson, D.S.O., 550l. by 25l. to 650l., duty, 110l.
Deputy Inspector-General, Capt. F. S. Merrick, 400l. by 20l. to 500l., duty, 80l.

Four Commissioners, Maj. J. F. N. Price, Capt. A. G. Uniacke, D.S.O., Capt. F. A. E. Godwin, W. M. Fowler, 400l. by 20l. to 500l., duty, 80l.
Fourteen Assistant Commissioners, F. P. W. Soper, 2nd Lieut. R. G. Bracken, J. Chartres, Hon. Maj. R. F. Ellis, Capt. G. H. Burnside, E. W. Dix, Lieut. J. Radcliff, W. I. Walton, L. W. la Chard, T. Stone, G. G. Pomeroey, O. F. Dune, Lieut. A. K. Rickards, 300l. by 15l. to 400l.

Prisons.

Keeper of Gaols, P. Merron, 300l. by 10l. to 350l., duty 36l.
Two Assistant Keepers of Gaols, J. F. Cahill, Capt. W. E. Beamish, 250l. by 10l. to 300l.

Forestry.

Assistant Conservator of Forests,† B. E. B. Shaw, 300l. by 15l. to 400l.

Agriculture.

Director, P. H. Lamb, 600l. by 25l. to 800l., duty, 120l.
Four Assistant Superintendents,‡ K. T. Rae, R. C. Andrew, T. Thornton, R. Nicol, 300l. by 15l. to 400l.

Education.

Director, ||H. Vischer, 500l. by 25l. to 700l., duty, 100l.
Senior Superintendent, F. M. U. Smith, 400l. by 20l. to 500l., duty, 80l.
Eighteen Junior Superintendents, H. H. Annetta, H. C. Brooks, G. A. J. Bienemann, C. B. Smith, A. A. M. Isherwood, Rev. G. P. Bargery, M. W. Oakes, T. J. Cronshaw, G. O. Pauer, 300l. by 15l. to 400l.
Three Technical Instructors, J. G. Bagge, P. R. M. Barker, 300l.
Teacher (vacant), 250l.

Surveys.

Chief Surveyor, A. S. Collard, 500l. by 20l. to 600l., duty 100l.
Surveyor, T. J. Waters, 400l. by 20l. to 500l., duty 80l.
Four Surveyors, S. R. J. Kingston, R. A. L. P. Hunt, H. J. Woram, J. Healy, 300l. by 15l. to 400l.
Survey Instructor, R. S. Smith, 400l., duty 80l.

Mines.

Inspector of Mines, E. A. L. Cook, 600l. by 25l. to 800l., duty 120l.
Three Assistant Inspectors of Mines, R. G. Williams, 400l. by 20l. to 500l., duty 80l.; J. B. S. Henderson, A. H. Mottram, 300l. by 15l. to 400l.
Senior Officer, Tinfields Survey, Capt. F. L. N. Giles, R.E., 667l.

* Appointments subsequent to August 11th, 1911, carry increments, 15l.
† On scale, 350l. by 20l. to 450l.
‡ On scale, 350l. by 15l. to 400l.
|| Seconded from Political Department.
Public Works.

Director of Public Works, A. C. Ridsdale, 800l. by 20l. to 1,000l., duty 180l.

Two Executive Engineers, 2nd Grade, *E. Lloyd Williams, †A. Graham, 600l. by 20l. to 600l., duty 100l.

Three District Engineers, 2nd Grade, R. A. Lloyd, J. S. Brown, 400l. by 20l. to 500l., duty 80l.

Two Assistant Engineers, F. G. Pratt, J. G. Rice, W. Elliott, E. C. Walker, F. W. M. Burr, 300l. by 10l. to 400l.

Accountant, 2nd Grade, L. R. Bradley, 400l. by 20l. to 500l., duty 80l.

Assistant Accountant, 1st Grade, J. G. Kirk, 350l. by 10l. to 400l.

Two Assistant Accountants, 2nd Grade, J. Stewart, C. W. Dunnill, 300l. by 10l. to 350l.

Assistant Accountant, 3rd Grade (vacant), 250l. by 10l. to 300l.

Two Inspectors, 1st Grade, J. Dooley, H. J. Chapman, 300l. by 10l. to 350l.

SOUTHERN PROVINCES.

Audit.

Auditor, C. A. Pickwoad, 600l. by 25l. to 800l., duty 120l.

Thirteen Assistant Auditors, K. J. Douglas, A. W. Brown, E. L. Gueritz, S. W. Dunn, F. G. Langley, E. H. Montague, C. E. de B. Biden, A. G. Sutherland, M. J. Flanagan, H. H. S. Cheeseman, C. E. Goulden, D. L. Daly, H. E. C. Merrick, 300l. by 10l. to 400l., duty 60l. (for 4).

Printing.

Government Printer, A. D. Cameron, 500l., duty 100l.

Senior Assistant Printer, J. Williams, 300l. by 10l. to 350l.

Two Assistant Printers, W. T. Farrell, †J. A. Blair, 250l. by 10l. to 300l.

Volunteers.

Two Adjutants (vacant), 400l., duty 48l.

Police.

Inspector General and Sheriff, C. E. Johnstone, 700l. by 25l. to 900l., duty 140l.

Deputy Inspector General (vacant), 500l. by 20l. to 600l., duty 100l.

Two Commissioners, T. F. R. Barry, Capt. C. W. Moore, 400l. by 20l. to 500l., duty 80l.

Thirteen Assistant Commissioners, H. L. D. Rawles, G. H. Walker, D.S.O., K. M. Leslie, J. D. Montagu, Capt. O. A. Johnston, J. Owens, F. W. Garvey, §Capt. C. H. Wolff, T. B. Bracken, 300l. by 20l. to 400l.; R. C. A. Cavendish, Capt. H. R. Goode, Lieuts. R. D. Nunn, G. C. Shaw, Hon. R. E. T. M. Noel, F. J. Sloaley, 300l. by 15l. to 400l.

* On scale, 600l. by 25l. to 700l.; duty 100l.
† Seconded for Railway Construction.
‡ Appointed as "Foreman."
§ Seconded as Head of Police and Superintendent of Prison, Egba, from November 27, 1912.

Prisons.

Inspector, Commander G. S. B. Gray, R.N.R., 600l. by 25l. to 700l., duty 120l.

Senior Superintendent, E. Jackson, 300l. by 15l. to 400l.

Three Superintendents, T. J. McFadyen, W. Reeder, A. H. Cole, 250l. by 10l. to 300l.

Forestry.

Chief Conservator, H. N. Thompson, 1,000l., duty 200l.

Deputy Chief Conservator, R. E. Dennett, 700l. by 25l. to 800l., duty 140l.

Two Conservators, 1st Grade, *P. Hitchens, *J. H. Farquhar, 500l. by 25l. to 700l.; duty 100l.

Three Conservators, 2nd Grade, *Dr. A. A. H. Unwin, *E. W. Foster, *T. Christ, 400l. by 20l. to 500l., duty 80l.

Eight Assistant Conservators, R. A. Cullen, L. A. King-Church, W. B. Hellard, C. F. Vetich, E. C. V. Gillman, 300l. by 20l. to 400l.; J. C. Corbin, J. Bunny, H. J. Sankey, F. W. Ryan, 300l. by 15l. to 400l.

Agriculture.

Director, W. H. Johnson, 600l. by 25l. to 800l., duty 120l.

Assistant Director, A. H. Kirby, 500l., duty 100l.

Two Superintendents, S. V. Henderson, F. J. Evans, 400l. by 20l. to 500l., duty 80l.

Four Assistant Superintendents, R. Gill, A. J. Findlay, H. G. Burr, E. R. Owen, 300l. by 15l. to 400l.

Entomologist, W. A. S. Lamborn, 400l. by 20l. to 500l., duty, 80l.

Mycologist, C. O. Farquharson, 400l. by 20l. to 500l., duty 80l.

Four Curators, A. B. Culham, 250l. by 10l. to 300l.

Sanitary.

Three Inspectors, C. Davies, F. G. Payne and Sergt.-Major E. Kirk, R.A.M.C., 250l. by 10l. to 300l.

Education.

Director, H. J. Hyde-Johnson, 600l. by 25l. to 800l., duty 120l.

Principal, King's College, Lagos, C. M. Wright, 500l., duty 100l.

Three Inspectors of Schools, 1st Grade, †H. Carr, H. I. A. Wimberley and F. H. Harward, 400l. by 20l. to 500l., duty 80l.

Science Master, King's College, Lagos, J. A. de Gaye, 350l. by 15l. to 400l.

General Master, King's College, Lagos, D. L. Kerr, 300l. by 20l. to 400l.†

Three Inspectors of Schools, 2nd Grade, C. A. Cummins, W. H. Bickel, and T. Hyde, 300l. by 20l. to 400l.†

Headmaster, Bonny Government School, H. J. Davidson, 300l. by 15l. to 400l.

* On old scale, 600l.-700l. by 50l. every 18 months, and 60l. duty allowance.
† Appointments subsequent to August 11, 1911, to carry increments, 15l.
‡ 100l. personal.
Headmaster, Warri School, B. Claydon, 300l. by 15l. to 400l.

Two Schoolmasters, W. R. C. Adcock and A. Fleming, 250l. by 10l. to 300l.

Principal, Training College for Teacher, 400l., duty 80l.

Assistant, Training College for Teacher, 250l. by 10l. to 300l.

Three Superintending Instructors, T. Harwood, F. C. Brown and W. Fyfe, 250l. by 10l. to 300l.

Survey.

Director of Surveys, Major F. G. Guggisberg, C.M.G., R.E., 900l., duty, 180l.

Office Superintendent, S. Boulderson, 280l. by 20l. to 380l.

Deputy Director of Surveys, A. Cleminson, 500l. by 20l. to 600l., duty, 100l.

Five Lieutenants, R.E., Lieut. H. E. Kentish, Capt. R. H. Rowe, Lieut. G. H. Bell, Lieut. J. Dare, Lieut. H. I. Bulkeley, R.E., 525l.

Three Land Surveyors, R. A. Webb, R. L. Drouyn, E. N. Thomas, 400l. by 20l. to 500l., duty 80l.

Surveyor, 300l. by 20l. to 400l.†

Draughtsman, Loc.-Corpl. E. H. Allen, R.E., 300l.

Mines.

Inspector of Mines, F. C. Marshall, 600l. by 25l. to 800l., duty, 120l.

Assistant Inspector of Mines, 400l., duty 80l.

Lands.

Commissioner, C. W. Alexander, 500l. by 20l. to 600l., duty, 100l.

Assistant Commissioners, W. B. Smith, F. E. Knapp, 400l. by 20l. to 500l., duty, 80l.

Colonial Chaplain, Rev. L. S. Noble, 400l. by 20l. to 500l., duty, 80l.

Public Works.

Director, H. F. E. Peet, 900l. by 25l. to 1,000l., duty, 180l.

Deputy Director, F. J. Dawson, 1,000l., duty, 200l.

Three Executive Engineers, 1st Grade, V. B. Taylor, W. E. May, J. D. Bathgate, 600l. by 25l. to 800l., duty, 120l.

Executive Engineer, 2nd Grade, G. L. Harvey, 500l. by 20l. to 600l., duty, 100l.

Electrical Engineer, G. L. Hales, 400l. by 20l. to 500l., duty, 80l.

Nine District Engineers, E. W. Oborne, F. Talfoord Jones, A. J. Goodwin, G. A. Broun, H. C. Huggins, E. G. Mercer, E. G. Stevens, H. S. Melandt, H. G. L. St. J. Kneller, 400l. by 20l. to 500l., duty, 80l.

Railway.—General.

Director of Railways and Works, J. Eaglesome, C.M.G., 1,500l. by 50l. to 1,800l.; duty, 300l.

General Manager A. S. Cooper, 1,100l. by 50l. to 1,300l.; duty, 220l.

Deputy General Manager, F. H. Waller, 800l. by 25l. to 1,000l.; duty, 160l.

Office Assistant, 1st Grade, L. E. Lloyd, 400l. by 20l. to 500l.; duty, 80l.

Two Office Assistants, 3rd Grade, F. W. Smith, 300l. by 10l. to 350l.

Chief Accountant, W. H. C. Trousdale, 700l. by 25l. to 900l.; duty, 140l.

Three Accountants, A. G. Hubbard, F. H. Deriman, C. A. Cunningham, 500l. by 20l. to 600l.; duty, 100l.

Accountant, 2nd Grade, F. J. Finney, 400l. by 20l. to 500l.; duty, 80l.

Five Assistant Accountants, 1st Grade, N. A. St. J. Firth, J. A. Greenway, J. M. B. Kinghorn, H. J. Morris, A. Gibbons, [E.J. Carter, [W.W. Hedley, 350l. by 10l. to 400l.

† Appointments subsequent to Aug. 11, 1911, carry increments, 15l.

‡ Appointments subsequent to Aug. 11th, 1911, carry increments, 15l.

§ On scale 350l. by 10l. to 400l.

* Seconded as Municipal Engineer, Lagos, from Feb. 15th, 1910.

† Appointments subsequent to Aug. 11th, 1911, carry increments, 15l.

‡ 50l. personal.

|| Supernumerary.
Seven Assistant Accountants, 2nd Grade, C. Taylor, O. Wheeler, H. R. A. Chelu, E. J. Blackett, 300l. by 10l. to 350l.

Two Assistant Accountants, 3rd Grade, †W. H. Lloyd, †J. Young, R. D. Johnson, 260l. by 10l. to 300l.

Chief Storekeeper, A. H. Bridgman, 600l. by 25l. to 700l.; duty, 120l.

Two Assistant Storekeepers, 1st Grade, J. A. Hawkes, A. B. Campbell, 350l. by 10l. to 400l.

Two Assistant Storekeepers, 2nd Grade, P. F. Gallagher, L. L. Woodell, 300l. by 10l. to 350l.

Three Assistant Storekeepers, 3rd Grade, H. E. Turner, F. G. Thomson, 250l. by 10l. to 300l.

Stock Verifier, Capt. F. C. Goulden, 400l. by 20l. to 500l.; duty, 80l.

Assistant Stock Verifier, A. G. McErvel, 300l. by 10l. to 350l.

Superintendent of Printing Office, C. H. Beard, 250l. by 10l. to 300l.

Ways and Works.

Chief Engineer, A. Woodburn, 800l. by 25l. to 1,000l.; duty, 160l.

Assistant Chief Engineer, †E. M. Bland, 600l. by 25l. to 800l.; duty, 120l.

Two District Engineers, 1st Grade, †F. H. Green-Hough, W. C. Bostock, 600l. by 25l. to 700l.; duty, 120l.

Four District Engineers, 2nd Grade, R. M. Raven, A. E. Sandall, ‡R. Sutherland, H. Stier, 500l. by 20l. to 600l.; duty, 100l.

Seven Assistant Engineers, 1st Grade, D. Gaskin, A. R. Seymour, G. S. Chisholm, H. W. Lawson, J. H. Boyd, W. N. Kelly, **G. J. Giradin,** 400l. by 20l. to 500l., duty 80l.

Two Assistant Engineers, 2nd Grade, G. T. Brodie Smith, A. Bain, 350l. by 10l. to 400l.

Four Assistant Engineers, 3rd Grade, H. Hodgson, W. H. Thatcher, Lieut. T. A. Young, R.E., A. Thexton, D. W. Ridsdale, 300l. by 10l. to 350l.

Three Chief Foremen of Works, ††W. Smith, R. Brown, J. Bond, 350l. by 10l. to 400l.

Three Foremen of Works, 1st Grade, P. J. E. Coast, G. E. Goodwin, D. Henderson, 300l. by 10l. to 350l.

Three Draughtsmen, P. A. T. Wright, ‡‡A. J. Doleman, 350l. by 10l. to 400l.; J. L. Peddie, — Bradley, 300l. by 10l. to 350l.

Three Assistant Accountants, 3rd Grade*, A. Baulch, D. B. Fox, A. J. Doe, 250l. by 10l. to 300l.

Locomotive.

Locomotive Superintendent, T. H. M. Bonell, 800l. by 25l. to 1,000l., duty 160l.

Two District Locomotive Superintendents, 1st Grade, E. Turner Smith, W. White, 600l. by 25l. to 700l., duty 120l.

Two District Locomotive Superintendents, 2nd Grade, Capt. T. O. Birmingham-Otway-Ruthven, R. B. W. Holmes, 500l. by 20l. to 600l., duty 100l.

Three Assistant Locomotive Superintendents, 1st Grade, C. L. B. Hewson, C. E. Bressey, J. E. Williams, 400l. by 20l. to 500l., duty 80l.

Two Assistant Locomotive Superintendents, 2nd Grade, 350l. by 10l. to 400l.

Assistant Locomotive Superintendents, 3rd Grade, W. F. D. Allison, D. Drayson, H. F. Golding, 300l. by 10l. to 350l.

Draughtsman, 350l. by 10l. to 400l.

Locomotive Inspector, †H. Hearshaw, 300l. by 10l. to 350l.

Twelve Locomotive Foremen, H. E. Jones, R. A. Buchanan, H. A. Freeland, J. H. Meggett, F. W. Moorman, L. A. P. Collier, H. H. L. Hamilton, Sgt. T. J. Gatford, R.E., A. Jones, G. W. Thompson, 300l. by 10l. to 350l.

Three Workshop Foremen, F. S. Browning, C. F. Fennah, 300l. by 10l. to 350l.

Carriage and Wagon Erector, F. C. Chamberlain, 300l. by 10l. to 350l.

Clerical Assistant, 300l. by 10l. to 350l.

Three Assistant Accountants, 3rd Grade, *A. Baulch, D. B. Fox, A. J. Doe, 250l. by 10l. to 300l.

Inspecting Driver, H. R. Lucas, 300l. by 10l. to 350l.

Traffic.

Traffic Superintendent, M. Y. Grant, 700l. by 25l. to 900l., duty 140l.

Two District Traffic Superintendents, W. S. Hewitt, E. H. Biffen, 500l. by 20l. to 600l., duty 100l.

Four Assistant Traffic Superintendents, 1st Grade, H. B. Haddon-Smith, T. E. Kewley, B. S. A. Ingram, P. H. Phillips, 400l. by 20l. to 500l., duty 80l.

Assistant Traffic Superintendent, 2nd Grade, C. E. Thompson, 350l. by 10l. to 400l.

Fifteen Assistant Traffic Superintendents, 3rd grade, J. A. Oldfield, R. Sayer, A. E. Ivatt, J. Powter, F. O. Willits, H. D. Gibson, H. Creighton, J. W. Fenwick, F. W. Wade, P. H. Edwards, F. A. Sheriff, H. R. Gunning, W. G. Dawson, 300l. by 10l. to 350l.

Five District Station Masters, A. Newport, C. James, H. H. Mickdall, J. Sneddon, J. R. Spitzer, 300l. by 10l. to 350l.

Master of Train Ferry, W. Waddell, 300l.

Tramway Inspector, C. Marland, 300l. by 10l. to 350l.

Assistant Motor Superintendent, R. R. Seward, 400l. by 20l. to 500l., duty 80l.

* On scale, 300l. by 10l. to 350l.

† Starts salary at 700l. per annum.

‡ Starts salary at 600l. per annum.

** Seconded as Office Assistant for construction.

†† Draws salary of 480l. per annum.

‡‡ Seconded on construction.

* For Engineering and Locomotive Departments.

† Duty allowance of 20l. while acting as Assistant Locomotive Superintendent.
