BECHUANALAND PROTECTORATE.

Situation and Area.

The territory of the Bechuanaland Protectorate is bounded on the south by the Cape Colony, on the East by the Transvaal Colony, on the north by the British South Africa Company's territory and the Zambesi River, and on the west by German territory. Its area is estimated at about 275,000 square miles, and the native population at about 120,000. The European population numbers 1,000.

History.

During the year 1885, Sir Charles Warren, who was in command of an expedition despatched from England to pacify Southern Bechuanaland, where for some time previously hostilities had been proceeding between the Bechuanaes and Boers from the South African Republic, visited the principal chiefs in Northern Bechuanaland (known as the Bechuanaland Protectorate), Khama, Gasitse, and Sebele, and as a result a British Protectorate was proclaimed over their territories. No further steps were taken until the year 1891, when, by an Order in Council dated 9th May, the limits of the Bechuanaland Protectorate were more clearly defined, and the High Commissioner was authorised to appoint such officers as might appear to him to be necessary to provide for the administration of justice, the raising of revenue, and generally for the peace, order, and good government of all persons within the limits of the Order. Sir Sidney Shippard, the Administrator of Bechuanaland, was appointed Resident Commissioner, and an Assistant Commissioner was appointed for the Northern Protectorate, and another for the Southern Protectorate.

For fiscal and several other purposes the Protectorate was treated as a portion of the Crown Colony of British Bechuanaland, until the latter was annexed to the Cape Colony on the 15th November, 1895. In the autumn of that year arrangements were made for the transfer of the administration of the Bechuanaland Protectorate, with the exception of certain reserves for native chiefs, to the British South African Company, and the Company's police were moved down to a camp in the Protectorate at Pitsani Potogo. On the 29th of December Dr. Jameson, with his police, crossed the border of the South African Republic and marched towards Johannesburg, which was at the time in a state of great unrest, but being defeated by the Boers at Doornkop, surrendered on the 2nd January, 1896. In consequence of the raid, the administration of the Protectorate was not transferred to the Company. Since the annexation of British Bechuanaland to the Cape the Protectorate has been governed as a separate territory under the name of the Bechuanaland Protectorate, and the form of government is very similar to that which obtains in Basutoland. There is a Resident Commissioner, who is under the direction of the High Commissioner, and there are two Assistant Commissioners, one stationed at Francistown, in the Northern Protectorate, and the other at Gaberones, in the Southern Protectorate. For the maintenance of law and order there is a force of police known as the Bechuanaland Protectorate Police, numbering 180. This force is under the direct control of the Resident Commissioner. There are 12 officers, 32 European non-commissioned officers and men, and 136 Basuto non-commissioned officers and men. The police are stationed in small detachments at various places in the Protectorate. The headquarters is at Mafeking, in the Cape Colony, which is also the headquarters of the Resident Commissioner.

Climate.

The climate is fairly healthy during seven months of the year. During the summer months malarial fever is generally prevalent.

Native Chiefs.

The principal chiefs are:—

Khama, Chief of the Bamangwato, whose chief town is Serowe.

Sebele, Chief of the Bakwena, who lives at Borakalala.

Bathoen, Chief of the Bangwaketse, who lives at Kanye.

Linchwe, Chief of the Bakhatlse, who lives at Mochudi.

Sekgoma, Chief of the Batswana, who lives at Lake Ngami, near which at Tean there is a small detachment of police under a sub-inspector, who is also a magistrate for the territory.

Mokgosi, Chief of the Bamaletse, who lives at Ramotusa.

Means of Communication.

The main trunk railway to the North, which connects Rhodesia with Cape Town and which has now been extended to the Victoria Falls, runs through the Protectorate. The line north of Vryburg in the Cape Colony is the property of the Rhodesia Railways, Limited, to whom, under an agreement made in 1894, the Protectorate Government pays a subsidy of 20,000l. a year.

Finances.

The estimated expenditure for the year ending the 31st March, 1905, is 81,758l., and the estimated revenue 27,000l. The deficiency is met by an Imperial grant-in-aid, which, for the year ending the 31st March, 1905, was fixed at 15,000l. The revenue is derived principally from Customs and Hut Tax, and the chief items of expenditure are police and the railway subsidy. The High Commissioner's Proclamation, No. 11 of Aug. 5th, 1903, declared the admission of the Bechuanaland Protectorate into a South African Customs Union in terms of the Convention entered into in that year between Cape Colony, Natal, the O.R.C., Transvaal, Southern Rhodesia, Basutoland, and Bechuanaland Protectorate.
Establishment.

Resident Commissioner, Ralph Williams, C.M.G., 1,000l., and 200l. travelling allowance.

Government Secretary and Accountant to Resident Commissioner, Barry May, 650l.

Clerk and Registrar to Resident Commissioner, K. C. Bishop, 350l.

Clerk, Myles Williams, 300l.

Assistant Commissioner, Northern Protectorate, Lt.-Col. F.W. Panzera, 700l., and 100l. travelling allowance.

Clerk, E. O. Butler, 290l.

Assistant Commissioner, Southern Protectorate, J. Ellenberger, 700l., and 100l. travelling allowance.

Clerk, A. G. Stigand, 300l.

Magistrate, N'Gamiland, M. G. Williams, 200l.

Chief Customs Officer, Barry May, 100l.

Assistant Resident Magistrate, Serowe, R. M. Daniel, 100l.

Inspectors, R. M. Daniel, 400l.; C. R. Nettelton, 450l.

Sub-Inspectors, H. Martin, W. B. Surmon, M. G. Williams, G. A. Merry, H. D. Hannay, R. Reilly, and A. W. Hodson.

Paymaster, H. Fielding, 300l.

Medical Officers, D. M. MacRae, 485l.

Controller of Stores, W. J. Hepworth, 450l.

