SOMALILAND PROTECTORATE.

In 1884 a Protectorate was established over the tribes on the Somali coast, extending from Lahadu (Loyi-ada), halfway between Ras Jibouti and Zeyla, to the 49th meridian E. long. The boundary has been settled by agreements with France, Italy and King Menelik of Abyssinia. Till 1898 the Somaliland Protectorate was administered by the Resident at Aden as a dependency of the Government of India. In that year it was transferred to the charge of the Foreign Office. The chief ports are Berbera, Bulhar and Zeyla. Area about 68,000 square miles.

Exports consist of skins and hides, sheep and cattle, gums, ostrich feathers, salt, ivory, and gold ingots.

Imports consist of rice, dates, cotton piece goods and shirtings, iron and hardware.

All transport is by camels. There is a weekly steamer service with Aden.

The climate at the coast is trying for Europeans but is healthy in the interior, where an elevation of from 4,500 feet to 6,800 feet is reached.

The Haud waterless plains constitute the principal pastures of the country. The chief source of wealth of the people lies in their live-stock.

In the beginning of 1901 operations were commenced against a fanatical Somali leader, the Mullah Mohammed Abdullah, and a native levy, with British officers, under Captain (loc. Lieut.-Col.) E. J. Swayne, Indian Army, penetrated into the Nogal Valley. After defeating the Mullah at Somali and Fordiddin, and killing 1,200 men and taking 600 prisoners, he drove him into Italian territory.

The Dervishes afterwards gathered together again, and a similar expedition, strengthened by the 2nd King's African Rifles (Yao), was despatched under Col. Swayne in the summer of 1902, and again drove the Mullah into Italian territory with heavy loss, but met with a severe check in Italian territory at Erego on October 6th. The Mullah, however, retired as the result of this action still further into Italian territory, to Galadi.

Five months later a third expedition, co-operating with the Abyssinian Army, under Brevet Lieut.-Col. (loc. Brig.-Gen.) W. H. Manning, Insp.-Gen. K. A. Rifles, comprising British and Boer M. I., Indian and African troops, with the main base at Obbia in Italian Somaliland, proceeded to Mudug, thence detaching a force under Lieut.-Col. Cobbe, V.C., to Galadi, which place was up till then the headquarters of the enemy. A force of 200 Yoes and Sikhs, under the late Lieut.-Col. Plunkett, was overwhelmed at Gumburru in April, 1903, after a fight of the fiercest description. A column of 200 men under Major Gough, being at the same time attacked at Daratolib, whence it retired fighting to Bohotleh, and in June the expedition fell back on the Berbera-Bohotle lines of communication, when Lieut.-Gen. Sir C. C. Egerton, K.C.B., was placed in command.

Reinforcements, increasing the force to 7,000 rifles, were despatched and placed in the field, and in Jan., 1904, 3,250 troops defeated 5,000 dervishes at Jidballi, about 1,000 of the latter being killed.

**STATISTICS.**

| Imports | Exports |
|---------|---------|
| 1902-3 | Rs. 44,23,353 | Rs. 40,33,309 |
| Revenue | Expenditure |
| 1902-3 | 31,270l. | 56,908l. |
| 1903-4 | (Estimated) 28,906l. | 79,738l. |

Grant-in-aid.

| 1902-3 | 25,000l. |
| 1903-4 | 50,000l. |

Commissioner, Consul-General and Commander-in-Chief, Brigadier-General E. J. E. Swayne, I.A.
Sub-Commissioner and Consul at Berbera, Capt. H. E. S. Cordeaux, C.M.G.
Vice-Consul at Zeyla, Mr. W. Malcolm Jones.
District Officer at Bulhar, Mr. E. le P. Power.
Assistant District Officer, S. Carant.

The following Aden trading firms have agents at Berbera, Bulhar and Zeyla:—

- Messrs. Max Klein
- Societa Italiana
- W. H. Lockerman
- Paul E. Shipp

Menahim Messa
César Pian
Maurice Ries
BRUNEI.

An agreement, in terms similar to that with Sarawak (see "Sarawak"), was concluded in 1888 with the Sultan of Brunei, a native state lying between North Borneo and Sarawak, between 115° and 116° E. long., and touching the sea at Brunei Bay, in which lies the island of Labuan. Brunei is the state out of which the territories of the North Borneo Company and the Rajah of Sarawak have been carved, and appears to have been at one time powerful, claiming jurisdiction over the greater part of Borneo as well as over the Philippines. Its area is now only about 3,000 miles.

The outlying districts are Tutong, Belait, and Lawas, with others of less importance.

The authority of the Sultan is fast diminishing.

The chief town is Brunei, with a population of about 10,000, including 70 Chinese. Very little trade is now done by the inhabitants of Brunei, and that little passes through Labuan. Concessions of mining and timber rights have been granted to all comers, but the want of local labour deters serious work. Curios in brass work, made by the natives, are attractive to visitors. Opium and gambling farms are let yearly, and monopolies on tobacco, etc., are granted, but the principal source of revenue is derived from the yearly cession payments by the North Borneo and Sarawak Governments. A cutch factory has been established by a London syndicate at Brunei. Brunei suffered severely from an outbreak of small-pox in 1904. Every effort was made to cope with the disease by the acting British Consul, Mr. McArthur, and by doctors sent from Singapore.

