BRITISH ANTARCTIC TERRITORY

Area
The British Antarctic Territory was created on the 3rd March 1962 and lies bonded between 20 and 80 degrees of west longitude and south of the 60th parallel of latitude. The territory consists of the island groups of the South Shetlands and South Orkneys, all Islands adjacent to the mainland of the Graham Land Peninsula, the Graham Land Peninsula itself and all land masses within the bonded area to the South Pole.

Population
The British population of the Territory consists solely of male scientific officers and their assistants, the total number of these during the winter of 1962 was 89. This figure can be expected to double during the summer months on arrival of relief personnel and summer field workers. No exact numbers are known of other nationalities working in the Territory.

Principal Towns
There are no principal towns in the Territory. Scientific and Field Work bases are situated on various islands and parts of the mainland.

Geographical Features
The majority of the islands in the Territory are of a wild and rugged feature with many glaciers. The Graham Land Peninsula is mainly very mountainous, with plateau features of heights from 4,000 to 7,000 feet, running the entire length of the Peninsula. The main continental masses are covered by ice caps and fringed by floating ice shelves.

Climate
The Territory has a rigorous climate of Antarctic nature.

History
The main island group of the South Shetlands were discovered and taken possession of by Captain W. Smith in 1819, whilst the South Orkney Islands owe their discovery to Captain G. Powell in 1821.

The Graham Land Peninsula was discovered in 1820 by Edward Bransfield, R.N., and taken into the possession of Great Britain by John Biscoe in 1832. The penetration of what is now known as the Weddell Sea and the final discovery of the Continental Land Masses to the South and East of Graham Land Peninsula can be attributed to many great explorers—Cook, Weddell, Ross and Bruce to name but a few. Many of the Islands within the Territory were used as temporary bases for the early sealing and whaling expeditions, but at Deception Island of the South Shetlands Island Group a more permanent and more active whaling station was in operation from 1906 to 1931. During this time a magistrate was in permanent residence for the summer months.

In the 1943–44 season, under the code name of "Operation Tabarin", the first of what are now known as the British Antarctic Survey bases were established at Deception Island and Port Lockroy. Since then the occupation of bases has been continuous and the number so occupied now stands at 8; their locations are as follows:

SIGNY ISLAND—South Orkneys 60.43° South 45.36° West.
HOPE BAY—Trinity Peninsula, Graham Land 63.24° South 56.59° West. (There is a small field hut at View Point, Duse Bay which is manned periodically by sledging parties in transit from Hope Bay.)
DECEPTION ISLAND—South Shetlands 62.59° South 60.34° West.
GALINDEZ ISLAND—West Coast of Graham Land 65.15° South 64.16° West.
ARGENTINE ISLANDS—West Coast of Graham Land 67.15° South 68.30° West.
ADELAIDE ISLAND—King George VI Sound.
FOSSIL BLUFF—King George VI Sound.
HALLEY BAY—Caird Coast 75.31° South 26.36° West.
STONINGTON—68.11° South 67.00° West.

Other bases have been established, but are at present unoccupied; they were known as—

Base A—Port Lockroy, Wiencke Islands, Palmer Archipelago.
Base C—Cape Geddes, Laurie Island, South Orkneys.
Base G—Admiralty Bay, King George Island, South Shetlands.
Base J—Prospect Point, Graham Coast.
Base N—Anvers Island, Palmer Archipelago.
Base O—Danco Coast, Graham Land.
Base W—Detaille Islets, Loubet Coast, Graham Land.
Base Y—Horseshoe Island, Marguerite Bay.
Constitution

The Territory is administered by the High Commissioner resident in Stanley, Falkland Islands (see page 111).

Land Policy

The policy is guided by the Antarctic Treaty.

Taxation

All British Scientific officers and their assistants are taxed under the Falkland Islands Income Tax Ordinance.

Public Finance

For the years 1960-61 (see under Falkland Islands). Until the year ended 30th June 1962 British Antarctic Territory finances were embodied in the Dependencies.

| Dependencies | Revenue | Expenditure |
|--------------|---------|-------------|
| 1960-61 (a)  | £811,500| £799,518    |

(a) Includes H.M.G. grants.

In 1961-62, the revised estimate of revenue from the Dependencies totalled £129,915. In addition, the sum of £598,515 was expected to be received from Her Majesty's Government as a contribution towards the cost of running the British Antarctic Survey (ex Falkland Islands Dependencies Survey) Antarctic Bases and Ships.

Currency

Currency (when used) is British coinage and Falkland Islands £5 notes, £1 notes and 10s. notes which are interchangeable with sterling on par.

Communications

Communications between the Territory, the Colony of the Falkland Islands and the United Kingdom are maintained by the British Antarctic Survey's Royal Research Ships the 'John Biscoe' and the 'Shackleton' during the months of November to April/May only.

Between these months the Antarctic Bases are relieved, resupplied and restaffed. Radio communication for the passing of scientific and administrative data is linked between Antarctic Bases and the British Antarctic Survey in Stanley, Falkland Islands.

High Commissioner

1962—Sir Edwin Arrowsmith, K.C.M.G.

