BRUNEI.

Brunei is a state lying between North Borneo and Sarawak, between 115° and 116° E. long., and touching the sea at Brunei Bay, in which lies the island of Labuan. Out of this original state the territories of the North Borneo Company and the Raja of Sarawak have been carved, and it appears to have been at one time powerful, claiming jurisdiction over a large part of Borneo as well as over part of the Philippines. Its area is now only about 4,000 miles, with a population of about 30,000.

The outlying districts are Tutong, Belait and Tamburong, with others of less importance.

An agreement was concluded with the Sultan in 1888, under which the control of foreign relations was placed in the hands of H.M.'s Government, whilst internal affairs were left to the Sultan.

A further agreement was made at the end of 1905, under the terms of which a British Resident has been appointed to advise and assist in the administration of the State.

The chief town is Brunei, with a population of about 10,000. Trade is chiefly in the hands of Chinese, of whom there are about 100 in the capital. The principal imports are cloth and sundries, and the principal exports coal, cutch, rotans, sago and damar. The trade, to which an impetus has been given by the inauguration of a new system of administration, passes through Labuan.

Concessions and monopolies of all kinds were recklessly granted in the past. Many of these have now lapsed and others have been redeemed. A cutch factory has been established by a London syndicate at Brunei, and coal is worked by the Raja of Sarawak at Muara (Brooketon) at the mouth of the Brunei river, under the terms of a concession granted in 1882.

The Sultan and his leading ministers would derive a considerable income from the yearly cession payments made by the British North Borneo and Sarawak Governments had they not mortgaged them for years to come. Under the new arrangements the Sultan and his ministers draw fixed monthly allowances from the revenues of Brunei in addition to the amounts recoverable from cession money.

The revenue of the State is derived principally from an opium and spirit farm and from the collection of customs duties.

Establishments.

High Commissioner, Sir J. Anderson, K.C.M.G. (Governor, S.S.).
H. H. The Sultan, Mohamed Jemadulalam, succeeded May, 1906.

Prime Minister, Pengiran Sri Maharaja Permeiswara.

Second Minister, Pengiran Pemancha Sahibalri.

British Resident, M. S. H. McArthur.

Assistant Resident, J. C. Sugars.

---

