CAPE OF GOOD HOPE.

Extent and Boundaries.

The Cape of Good Hope, strictly speaking, is a small promontory near the south-west extremity of the continent of Africa. But the extensive Colony of the name is bounded by the Atlantic and the Southern or Indian Oceans on the west and south; it is bounded on the north to the west of longitude 22° by the Orange River, and on the north-east by the Orange River Colony and Natal. The Cape Colony, with the Transkei, contains an area of 276,995 square miles, being over five times that of England. It extends from 26 to 35 deg. S. lat., and from 17 to 30 deg. E. long.

In 1844 Letters Patent were issued annexing Natal to the Cape, but in 1856 it was constituted a separate Colony.

Twelve islands off Angra Pequena, on the coast of Damaraland (Plum-pudding, Roast-beef, Holland's Bird, Mercury, Ichaboe, Seal, Penguin, Halifax, Long, Possession, Albatross, and Mona), with the adjacent rocks, were annexed in 1867, and added to the Cape Colony in 1874.

In 1876, three large tracts of Kaffraria—namely, Fingoland, Idutywa Reserve, and Noman's Land, were brought under the more direct control of Government, and on the 12th of June, 1876, Letters Patent were issued authorising the Governor to annex these territories to the Cape of Good Hope, on condition of the Cape Parliament passing an Act to provide for their government. Such an Act was passed as No. 38 of 1877, but the territories were not actually incorporated until the 1st of October, 1879.

On the 12th March, 1878, the Port of Walvisch Bay, situated a few miles north of the tropic of Capricorn, was proclaimed British territory. It was annexed to the Colony by proclamation dated 7th August, 1884.

On the 15th October, 1880, the Province of Griqualand West was incorporated with the Cape Colony.

Under Proclamation No. 13 of the 26th January, 1882, were issued certain laws and regulations for the government of the territories known respectively as Tembuland, Emigrant Tambookieland, Bomvanaland, and Gcalekaland, of which, by royal warrant dated the 14th November, 1881, the officer administering the government of the Cape of Good Hope was appointed Governor. By proclamation No. 140 of 26th August, 1885, issued under Act 3 of 1885, these territories were annexed to the Cape Colony. A similar warrant was passed on the 27th July, 1881, in respect to the St. John's River Territory, which was annexed to the Colony by Proclamation No. 215 of the 15th September, 1884.

The Xhosa country ("Mount Ayllif") was annexed to the Colony by Letters Patent of the 23rd August and Proclamation of 25th October, 1886, and the Rode Valley, Pondoland, by Letters Patent of 29th July, 1887, and Proclamation of October, 1887 (Act No. 45 of 1887). Under Act No. 5 of 1894 the whole of Pondoland was annexed. Basutoland, now an independent Colony, formed part of the Cape from 1871 to 1884.

On the 16th of November, 1895, British Bechuanaland was incorporated with the Cape under Law No. 41 of 1895.

History.

On 14th September, 1486, Bartholomew de Diaz, a Portuguese commander, landed in Algoa Bay. Vasco de Gama doubled the Cape 11 years later, from which time it appears to have been resorted to by European navigators of all nations, but chiefly by Portuguese, Dutch, and English. British ships visited the Cape in 1591, and about 1602 the Dutch made it a place of call. In 1620 two English East India commanders, by a proclamation dated from Saldanha Bay, took possession of the Cape in the name of Great Britain; but no settlement was formed. In 1648 a Dutch East Indiaman, the Haarlem, was wrecked in Table Bay, the crew remaining there some time. In 1652 J. A. Van Riebeeck, duly commissioned by the "Chamber of Seventeen" at Amsterdam, landed at Table Bay accompanied by 100 persons, and took possession of what is now the site of Cape Town on behalf of the Dutch East India Company. In 1671 the first formal purchase of land was made from the Hottentots, and another purchase took place the following year. At the time of the revocation of the Edict of Nantes, the European population received a slight addition of French Protestants, but their descendants have not maintained any distinctive position in the country. The rule of the Dutch East India Company proved very distasteful to the burghers, who were continually prompted to move further and further from the seaboard and original seat of colonisation. Following these migratory colonists, a magistracy was established at Swellendam in 1745, and another at Graaff Reinet in 1786, and in 1788 the Great Fish River was proclaimed the boundary of the Colony. In 1795, Holland having yielded to the French Revolutionary Government, an English force proceeded to the Cape of Good Hope to secure it against the French for the Prince of Orange, but the Governor refused to obey the mandate of the Prince, and the British force thereupon proceeded to take possession, upon which a capitulation was arranged, and the administration of the Government was assumed by General Craig. An Act of Parliament (37 Geo. III., c. II.) was passed to regulate the trade with the new possession. By the Peace of Amiens the Cape of Good Hope was restored to the Batavian Republic, and evacuated in 1803, but it was again captured by a British force in 1806, and at the General Peace of 1814 it was ceded in perpetuity to the British Crown. During the interval between the Peace of Amiens and the recapture by the British in 1806, the Colony had made rapid progress, owing to the abolition of the rule of the Dutch East India Company, and the wise regulations of government which had been substituted. An important event in the history of the Cape was the expulsion in 1809 of the Kaffirs from the Zuurvelde, a district west of the Great Fish River. In 1817 that district was visited by the then Governor, who saw the importance of its colonisation as a barrier against the Kaffir power, and in 1820 Parliament voted a sum of 50,000l. to promote emigration to the Cape, and 4,000 British immigrants were brought to the Colony and settled in the eastern districts. In December, 1834, began the first of what are called the Kaffir wars, when the Gaika tribe, 20,000 strong, overrun the whole south-eastern portion of the Colony, but were defeated, and their lands up to the Kei River proclaimed British territory, but Lord Glenelg, then Secretary of State, refused to ratify the annexation. In 1846 the second Kaffir war broke out, but was speedily suppressed, and the colonial border was extended to the Kei River, as proposed by Sir Benjamin D'Urban. On Christmas Day, 1850, began the third Kaffir war, which lasted nearly three years, and in
earlier stages was aggravated by a simultaneous rebellion of the Kat River Hottentots.

In 1836 began what is called the trekking of a part of the Dutch or Boer population. This remarkable movement, which resulted in the colonisation of Natal, the Free State, and the Transvaal, may be ascribed to several causes, of which the chief were:

(1.) General dislike of the policy of Great Britain in relation to slavery and the Native question.
(2.) Particular resentment against the policy of Lord Glenelg in reversing the policy of Sir Benjamin D'Urban in relation to the first Kaffir war.
(3.) Resentment against the mode in which compensation had been made to them for the loss of their slaves under the Imperial Act abolishing slavery, namely, by orders for payment payable in London, which they could only dispose of on the spot at an enormous discount.

The years 1849 and 1850 were years of continued excitement, owing to the proposals of the Government at home to send convicts to the Cape. In view of the agitation, carried almost to the point of active resistance, the project was abandoned.

In 1856 the German Legion, which had been formed during the Crimean war, was brought to the Cape, and the men, numbering 2,300, disposed in selected spots on the frontier for defensive purposes. The same year (1856) was remarkable for the prevalence in Native Kaffraria of a cattle-killing delusion, preached by a young prophetess, which resulted in wide-spread starvation. The political changes which have occurred in the last 20 years are briefly described under the title Constitution. One of the most important events in the recent economical and social history of the Cape has been the discovery of diamonds beyond the Orange River, which is described under the title of Diamonds.

Climate.

The climate of the Cape is very favourable to Europeans. The air is dry and bracing, the heat seldom oppressive, and the winter weather mild and delightful; snow or ice is practically unknown except in the more elevated localities. The mean temperature at Royal Observatory, near Cape Town, is—maximum 70°9, minimum 53°4, and average rainfall for the last 15 years 27-10 inches. Aliwal N. (4,330 ft. above sea) shows 74°0 and 44°1 maximum and minimum respectively, rainfall average for 15 years being 23-71 inches.

In the Eastern and Midland divisions the chief rainfall is during the summer months (November to April), in the Western districts during the winter months.

The Cape offers many localities presenting the requisites of altitude and extreme dryness for the modern treatment of consumptive patients.

Cape Government Railways.

The railways of the Cape Colony were originally commenced by private enterprise at Cape Town, and when, in 1873, the lines were taken over by the Government, only 63 miles were open. New construction was then undertaken in the shape of three separate systems, starting from the principal seaports of the Colony, viz., Cape Town, Port Elizabeth and East London.

In 1885, 1,599 miles had been opened for traffic, and for a period of some three years there was a suspension of further work, though the necessity of making progress towards the establishing of through communication within the Colony, and the securing of the trade of the inland States to the north of the Colony was constantly kept in view.

Consequently, on the discovery of the Gold Fields in the Transvaal abnormal development in railway construction ensued, and the same is now, and has been, observable in respect to the rapid extension of the railways in Rhodesia.

On December, 31st, 1906, the Cape Government railways consisted of 3,191 miles of line, divided into three systems, known as Western, Midland and Eastern.

(1.) The Western System, starting from Cape Town, extends to Vryburg, a distance of 774 miles.

The following branch lines form part of the Western System:—Salt River to Wynberg and Simon's Town (20 miles), serving the populous suburbs of Cape Town and watering places in its vicinity; Malmesbury, Eende Kuil line (110 miles), which leaves the Main Line at Kraaifontein Junction. From Kalabas Kraal on this line there is a 2 feet gauge line to Hopefield via Darling, a distance of about 47 miles. These two branches serve a very important grain-producing centre. On the main line there are alternative routes between Bellville and Mulder's Vlei, one of which (the branch, 26 miles) serves the Stellenbosch district. At Eerste River on the Stellenbosch line there is a branch to Sir Lowry's Pass and Caledon (66 miles), which serves a rich agricultural district.

Another branch leaves the Main Line at Paarl and runs through a fertile district to French Hoek (via Simondium), a distance of 17 miles. At Hutchinson there is a branch, 86 miles long, to Carnarvon. From De Aar a branch line runs to Prieksa, 112 miles. From Fourteen Streams there is a line, 4 miles long, to the Transvaal Border, where it connects with the C.S.A. Railway's new line from the border to Klerksdorp and Johannesburg.

The new Cape Central Railway (2043 miles), a private line constructed under a Government subsidy, runs from Worcester through Swellendam and Riversdale, to Fore Bay (4½ miles from Mossel Bay), where it joins the Government line which has been constructed from Mossel Bay to George. The line from Worcester through to Mossel Bay was opened for public traffic on 22nd January, 1906, and is worked by the New Cape Central Railway Company. The line serves several productive agricultural districts.

The Cape Flats and Suburban Railway Syndicate own a short line of railway from Maitland, where it joins the main line of the Cape Government Railways, to Ottery Road on the Cape Flats, a distance of 7 miles. By Act 34, 1906, Parliament authorised the acquisition of the existing line by the Government, and the extension thereof from Ottery Road to Diep River (about 2 miles) to join the Simon's Town line. The line has not yet been taken over or extended by the Government (September, 1907).

A short line, four miles in length, was built by the Milnerton Estates Company, Limited, from Craig's Crossing, which is situated between Woodstock and Salt River stations, to the Milnerton estates. This branch is worked by the Government on behalf of the Milnerton Estates Company.

The Cape Government railways end at Vryburg, where the lines of the Rhodesia Railways, Limited, commence. The length of line between Vryburg and Bulawayo (Bulawayo exclusive), 588 miles, is worked by the Cape Government Railway Department for the owning company at actual cost, and from Bulawayo northwards the lines are worked by the Beira and Mashonaland Railways.
Railway extension in Rhodesia has been progressing rapidly within the last few years. From Bulawayo there is now through communication to Gwelo, Salisbury, Beira, the Victoria Falls (290 miles from Bulawayo and 1,642 miles from Cape Town), and Brokenhill, 375 miles beyond the Victoria Falls.

By Act 34 of 1906 Parliament authorised the construction of the following lines to further open up the Western Districts of the Colony, viz.:

Eende Kuil, to a point in the vicinity of Graaf Water or Vogelfontein, in the direction of Van Ryn's Dorp, a 3ft. 6in. gauge line (53½ miles), at a cost of £231,773.

Hopefield, to a point at or near Hoetges Bay, via the vicinity of Lange Riet Vlei and the vicinity of Vredenburg (40 miles), at a cost of £87,640. This will be a 2ft. gauge line.

Belmont to Douglas, a 2ft. gauge line (55 miles), at a cost of £100,870.

The railway known as the Sea Point Railway (3½ miles long) has been acquired by the Government, and is being worked under an agreement whereby the Green and Sea Point Municipality guarantee and secure the repayment to the Government, for a period of ten years, of any loss in working, interest on capital, etc.

The Government has constructed a line from Van der Stel, near Somerset West, to Somerset Strand, 2½ miles. It is being worked under guarantee of the Somerset Strand Municipal Council, the arrangement being similar to that under which the Sea Point line is worked.

By Act 34, 1906, Parliament authorised the construction of a line from Ceres Road to Ceres on a 3ft. 6in. gauge, utilising the £44,167 already authorised for a 2ft. line by Act 38 of 1902, the total amount now authorised being £105,040. The Divisional Council of Ceres are taking action to guarantee the Government against loss on working, together with interest at 4% to an amount not exceeding £1,000 per annum, after the expiration of the first year of working, for a period of ten years.

By the same Act Parliament has authorised the construction of a line from Bellville to Durbanville, 7½ miles, at a cost of £26,000, the Government being guaranteed against any loss on working, for ten years after the opening of the line for traffic, by the Durbanville Municipality.

There is a line of railway, 8 miles long, constructed by the Mafeking Municipality, from Mafeking to Buurman's Drift, on the Transvaal Border, which was worked by the Government. Provision was made in Act 44 of 1905 for the sum of £84,150 for the construction and equipment of a line of railway to Ottoshoop in the Transvaal, a distance of 22 miles, in order to cater for the trade of the Western Transvaal, the construction of the line to be contingent upon the Cape Government entering into an agreement with the High Commissioner protecting the Colony for a period of not less than ten years against the introduction of lower rates over any lines which might be built by any other administration thereafter to Ottoshoop. Negotiations were entered into with the Transvaal Government with the view of concluding a Convention to this effect, and providing for the construction, equipment, working and maintenance of the portion of the line which would lie in the Transvaal. Parliament, by Act 34, 1906, authorised the utilisation of £9,184 of the £84,150 already voted for the acquisition of the line to Buurman's Drift, which has now been taken over by the Government. Negotiations have not so far reached a successful termination concerning the construction of the proposed line to Ottoshoop.

In June, 1906, a Convention was entered into between the High Commissioner and the Cape Government for the construction and working by the O.R.C. Government, at their own cost, of a line of railway from Bloemfontein to a point on the Cape Government Railways at or near Kimberley. Act 34 of 1906 ratified this Convention, and the construction of the line is being proceeded with in the Orange River Colony.

(2.) The Midland system starts from Port Elizabeth and joins the Western system at De Aar (339 miles). From Naauwpoort Junction (270 miles) the trunk line to the Orange River Colony and the Transvaal is continued.

The lines through the Orange River Colony (then Orange Free State) were built by the Cape Government Railways under convention with the Orange Free State, in terms of which the Cape constructed and worked the lines and the Orange Free State drew a moiety of the profits. On the 1st January, 1897, the Orange Free State Government took over these lines from the Cape and established its own railway department for the working of the lines in that territory.

In addition to the trunk line of the Midland system there is a line branching off at Zwart-kops, which touches Uitenhage and Graaff-Reinet and re-joins the main line at Rosmead Junction, after running a distance of 276 miles. This line passes through agricultural and fruit-growing country. From Klipplaat (123 miles from Port Elizabeth) on the Uitenhage-Graaff-Reinet line there is a branch to Oudtshoorn of 154 miles, through some of the most productive districts in the Colony.

Another branch line belonging to the Midland system is that from Alicedale to Graham's Town (35 miles). This line is continued to Port Alfred (a seaside resort for the surrounding districts) by a railway owned by the Kowie Railway Company, Limited. This private branch is 43 miles in length, and was constructed under subsidy from the Government.

A junction line, 83 miles long, with the Eastern system (No. 3) at present exists from Rosmead Junction (243 miles from Port Elizabeth) to Stormberg Junction (326 miles from Port Elizabeth and 221 from East London); this line forms part of the Midland system. From a point—Bamboo Junction—or this line there is a branch about 17 miles in length, which serves the Cape Collieries and other companies' coal mines with railway communication. By Act 38 of 1902 the Government authorised the expenditure of the sum of £30,000, for the purpose of extending this line from its present terminus to Romansfontein, a distance of eight miles, but, up to the present (September, 1907), construction work on this Branch has not been commenced.

Parliament authorised (by Act 34, 1906,) the construction of a line, 28½ miles long, from Schoonbie to Maraisburg, at a cost of £100,000.

There is also a branch, 2 miles in length, from Colesberg Junction, on the line from Naauwpoort to Norval's Pont, to Colesberg Town.

A junction line further south, through agricultural and stock-producing districts having a large native population, runs from Somerset East to Cookhouse (on the main line of the Midland system), and on, via Fort Beaufort, to King William's Town (on the Eastern system), thus forming another connection between the
Midland and Eastern systems, and considerably shortening the journey by rail between Port Elizabeth and East London. The total length of this line is 152 miles.

In Act 29 of 1904 provision was made by Parliament for the construction of a line from the seaport of Mossel Bay, lying between Cape Town and Port Elizabeth, to George (33 miles), at a cost not exceeding £353,231/. This line has been constructed, and will shortly be opened for traffic. By Act 34 of 1906 Parliament authorised the extension of this railway from George to Outshoorn, a distance of 46½ miles, at a cost of £372,971/, to join the branch which has already been constructed to the latter place from Klipplaat, on the Graaff Reinet line.

In 1898 Parliament authorised the construction of a narrow-gauge line from a point at or near Port Elizabeth to Avontuur, a distance of 179 miles. This line and the Hopefield line on the Western system are a new departure in Cape Government railway construction and working, as they are light railways of a 2 feet gauge instead of the standard gauge of 3 feet 6 inches. The experiment will be watched with much interest. The line from Port Elizabeth to Avontuur was opened for traffic on 1st January, 1907. The construction and working of a branch line (3½ miles long) from a point on this railway near Port Elizabeth to Walmer, on a 2 feet gauge, was authorised per Act 34 of 1906, on the understanding that the Walmer Municipality reimbursed the Government the interest on the cost of construction and equipment of the line, and any loss on working, for a period of ten years. This line was opened for traffic on 15th December, 1906.

Per Act 16 of 1904 Parliament authorised the construction by the South-Western Railway Company, Limited, of a 2 feet gauge line from Knysna to a point near Yzernek in the district of Knysna, a distance of about 16½ miles. In terms of this Act the Company is granted a subsidy by the Government calculated at the rate of 800/- per mile.

The line was opened for traffic on 19th July, 1907.

The Government, per Act 34, 1906, offers a subsidy of not exceeding £1,300 per mile, for the construction of a railway from a point on the South Western Railway to an approved point on the Mossel Bay-George Railway, either of 3 feet 6 inch or 2 feet gauge.

By the same Act Parliament has sanctioned the construction of a 2 feet gauge railway from Barkly Bridge (26½ miles from Port Elizabeth, on the main line), to a point on the Kowie Railway, between Roundhill and Port Alfred, via Alexandria, a distance of 90 miles, at a cost of £313,377/.

(3) The Eastern system starting from East London was originally constructed to Aliwal North (280 miles) lying on the south bank of the Orange River, the boundary between the Cape Colony and the Orange River Colony.

In 1891 a junction with the trunk lines through the Orange Free State towards the Transvaal was effected by a connecting line from a point 33 miles south of Aliwal North to Springfontein, in the Orange Free State (31¼ miles from East London).

As before stated, through communication between the Eastern, Midland and Western districts exists, and a junction line further south has been constructed from Cookhouse to King William's Town, thus forming another connection between the Midland and Eastern systems.

There is a branch line from Blaney to King William's Town (10 miles), an old-established centre, and formerly a military station of some magnitude, a branch line (66 miles) connecting Sterkstroom with the Indwe Coal Mines, and one runs from Aliwal North to Lady Grey (40 miles). There is also a light line of standard gauge between Bowker's Park and Tarkastad, a distance of 33 miles.

Surveys have been made through the fertile and generally densely populated native districts of the Transkei and East Griqualand, with a view to future railway connection with the sister colony of Natal. Parliament authorised by Act 38 of 1902 the construction of the following lines, which will further open up the eastern districts of the Colony:

A 3 feet 6 inch gauge line from a point at or near Amabelelopo to Butterworth, towards Umtata, a distance of 78 miles, at a cost of £619,045/.

A 3 feet 6 inch gauge line from Indwe to Maclear, towards Kokstad, for a distance of 107 miles, at a cost of £96,901/.

The Amabele-Butterworth line, 78 miles long, was opened for traffic on 17th December, 1906. By Act 34 of 1906 Parliament has sanctioned the extension of this line from Butterworth to Idutywa (26 miles) in the direction of Umtata, at a cost of £117,842/.

The line to Maclear was opened for traffic on the 29th August, 1906. The total length of the branch from Sterkstroom to Maclear is 171 miles. Parliament, per Act 48 of 1905, authorised the construction by a company styled "The St. Johns-Kokstad Railway Company, Limited," of a line of railway of the standard gauge from a point adjacent to the Umzimvubu River at the port of St. Johns to Kokstad. This line, which is 142 miles in length, is subsidized by the Government, the subsidy authorised being calculated at the rate of £1,500/- per mile.

Parliament, per Act No. 49 of 1905, also authorised the construction by a company styled "The St. Johns-Umtata Railway Company, Limited," of a line of railway 76 miles in length from a point upon the proposed St. Johns-Kokstad Railway (authorised by Act 48 of 1905) at Isenku to Umtata. The line authorised is of the standard gauge, and a subsidy will be paid by the Government in respect thereof, calculated at the rate of £1,500/- per mile. The construction of these two lines was started on 8th December, 1906, and, when completed, they will open up the native districts of Pondoland and the Transkei.

The construction of the following lines, to branch from the eastern system, has been authorised by Act 34 of 1906, viz.:

A 3 feet 6 inch gauge line from Lady Grey to Gairtnet, 27 miles, at a cost of £256,000/.

A 2 feet gauge line from Cathcart to a point in the vicinity of Fairford or Chilton (49 miles), at a cost of £138,229/.

A 2 feet gauge line, Queenstown to Whittlesea (22¼ miles), at a cost of £55,000/.

By the same Act the Cape Government is empowered to enter into a convention with the Natal Government for the construction and working, by the latter, at their own cost, of a line of railway from the Natal border to Riverside. In this connection Parliament has also authorised the construction, by the Cape, of a line from Riverside to Llewellyn (27 miles), at a cost of £256,000/.

On the 31st December, 1906, the mileage of the Cape Government Railways open for traffic was 3,191, and the length authorised and under
construction on that date was 268 miles. The gross receipts for the twelve months ended December 31st, 1906, were £3,772,770l., compared with £4,047,065l. for the year 1905; the working expenses were £2,981,350l., compared with £3,076,920l. for the year 1905, resulting in a return of £2,11s. 8d. per cent. on capital expended as compared with £2,6s. 10d. per cent. for the previous year.

Through railway communication now exists between all the Government lines of the Cape Colony to Bulawayo, Victoria Falls and Broken Hill and Salisbury in Rhodesia; to Beira in Portuguese East Africa; to Bloemfontein, Johannesburg, Pretoria and Pietersburg on the Central South African Railways; and to Durban and other important centres in Natal, and Delagoa Bay in the Portuguese territory.

The existing colonial lines, in common with practically all other South African lines (save the private line, 100 miles in length, owned and worked by the Copper Mining Company in Namaqualand, isolated from any Government line, which has a gauge of 2 feet 6 inches, and the 2 feet gauge lines referred to herein), are constructed on a gauge of 3 feet 6 inches. The lines are well and substantially laid, and both the rate of speed and their general comfort and equipment are admittedly creditable. Especial attention is devoted to the peculiar requirements of long journeys and the variations of climate experienced. Corridor saloons, carefully constructed with a view to comfort and stability, are provided on the through trains. They are fitted with lavatory accommodation and electric light, while the provision of bedding at reasonable charges adds materially to the comfort of the passengers.

Owing to the opening of the Klipdrift-Fourteen Streams line, there are now alternative routes to the Transvaal from Cape Town. There is a morning train daily from Cape Town to Johannesburg and Pretoria via Kimberley and Klipdrift. On Tuesdays this train starts from the Cape Town docks for the convenience of passengers who arrive by the mail steamer from England, and conveys first, second and third class passengers direct from the docks at Cape Town to Kimberley and stations in the Transvaal, including Johannesburg, Pretoria, Klipdrift and Potchefstroom; the train also serves stations in the Western district of the Cape Colony—Worcester, Matjiesfontein, Leinsburg, Beaufort West, etc. A through sleeping saloon for Bulawayo and Victoria Falls is attached to the train and goes forward from Kimberley to Victoria Falls by the train de luxe, leaving the former station each Wednesday evening.

The dining and sleeping saloon train starts from the boat side, and completes the journey from Cape Town to Kimberley in 30½ hours, and to Johannesburg in 47 hours.

Passengers by mail steamers for up-country who are desirous of reaching their destinations as early as possible, and who do not wish to spend any time in Cape Town, are thus enabled to purchase their tickets, entrain at ship's side, and continue their journey at once.

Railway official boards the vessels before disembarkment for the purpose of affording information to intending passengers, and special arrangements have been made with the Customs Department for dealing expeditiously with their baggage.

A conductor and also an experienced chef accompany the train, and passengers can obtain all meals on board at a fixed tariff as well as other refreshments at moderate charges.

There is also a train leaving Cape Town every evening travelling to the Transvaal via Naauwpoort and the Orange River Colony, with a connection daily from De Aar to Kimberley, Port Elizabeth, East London, etc.

On Thursdays the "African Express" train de luxe (first class only) runs from Cape Town to Johannesburg and Pretoria via the Orange River Colony.

In connection with the daily train to the Transvaal, via Kimberley, the Zambesi express train de luxe (first and second class), the property of the Rhodesia Railways, Limited, runs from Kimberley on Wednesdays to the Victoria Falls.

Passengers by all through trains to the Transvaal, Orange River Colony, and Rhodesia are supplied with meals by means of dining cars attached to the trains. The catering, which is under the management of a special branch of the railway department, gives every satisfaction. The catering on the Rhodesia Company's train de luxe is in the hands of the Cape Government Railways Refreshment Department, between Kimberley and Bulawayo.

The character of the country traversed near the coast is greatly diversified on each system, though when the higher altitudes are reached the general characteristics are usually similar. On the Western and Midland systems the scenery is perhaps the more imposing, while on the former line the vast stretches of the dry Karroo region, apparently barren and parched throughout a great portion of the year, are not without a certain charm of their own.

After rains the great latent fertility of the Karroo region is apparent, for, within a marvellously short space of time, the whole face of the country becomes carpeted with flowers of brilliant hue, which, with the bright crispness of the atmosphere, add greatly to the enjoyment of the traveller.

The Eastern line through much of its length traverses an open grassy country, presenting many interesting features.

Sets of lantern slides comprising photographs of places of interest in the Cape Colony have been prepared in England for loan to schools, educational bodies and the public. These slides are obtainable from the Agent-General for the Cape of Good Hope, 100, Victoria street, London, S.W.

The Government issues tariff books, corrected periodically by the railway authorities, containing full information upon all matters likely to be of interest or service to the public, such as fares, rates, distances, etc.

Harbours.

Harbour works on an extensive scale have been constructed at Table Bay (Cape Town), Port Elizabeth, and East London, under the direction of local boards composed of elective and nominee members.

The expenditure upon construction of works at Table Bay to the 31st December, 1906, has been £4,054,486l., and the annual charges for interest and maintenance, including working, are respectively about £15,837l. and £24,549l.

The shipping accommodation consists of an outer harbour, formed in part by the breakwater, and a south arm running parallel with it, enclosing an area of 64 acres, which, with the inner basin, makes a total area of 72½ acres, with a depth ranging from 20 to 30 feet at low water.
Many of the quays are equipped with the most modern appliances for handling cargo, such as electric cranes and capstans; and commodious warehouses are erected in various parts of the Dock. The normal capacity of the docks is 8,000 tons per diem.

The Breakwater is completed to a length of 3,640 feet, and affords protection to vessels anchored in the Bay.

The graving dock is 500 feet on the keel blocks, with a depth of 2½ feet over the cill at entrance at H.W.O.S.T., and a slip is available for vessels up to 500 tons.

The administration of the harbour of Port Elizabeth is in the hands of a Board of seven Commissioners, two elected by wharfage payers paying not less than 10/- a year wharfage, one nominated by the Chamber of Commerce, three by the Government, and the Mayor being a member ex-officio.

The whole of the landing and shipping operations are carried out by the Board departmentally.

The works at Port Elizabeth consist of two jetties, 1,160 feet long, which cost £60,000/., and a third jetty, 1,460 feet in length, which has recently been completed at a cost of £85,000/.

In addition to the above, there is an explosives jetty, 1,380 feet from the shore, with an aerial ropeway communication. This ropeway is capable of landing 150 tons per day.

There is also a slipway capable of accommodating vessels of 400 tons dead weight.

The Board has an electrical plant, with an output of 236 kilowatts, put down for lighting and power purposes. This plant includes one 10 ton and two 5 ton overhead gantries, and a 20 ton crane.

The Board's hydraulic plant consists of three pumping engines each of 200 horse-power, working 29 wharf cranes, 12 capstans, and 4 wool hoists.

The total storage area of the Board's warehouses is about 35,000 square yards.

At East London, at the mouth of the Buffalo River, successful harbour works have been carried out, overcoming the obstruction of sand-bars, which previously to a great extent closed the mouth of the river. The entrance to the river is now protected and sheltered by a solid south breakwater and improved by means of two training walls. The depth of water about the entrance is maintained by three steam pump-hopper dredgers of the latest type. A least depth of water over the bar of about 19 feet at low water ordinary spring tides is available throughout the year. The width between training walls at entrance to river is 250 feet. Steamers of over 8,000 tons gross register now enter the river and discharge cargo alongside wharves. The harbour is well equipped with steam, hydraulic and electric cranes, with a lifting capacity from 2½ up to 50 tons, and possesses a patent slip capable of accommodating vessels up to 1,000 tons dead weight. A new quay on the most up-to-date lines has been constructed on the west bank of the river, and will be found the most convenient quay in Africa. The whole of the arrangements on this side are in accordance with the best European models, and cargoes will be landed and despatched with exceptional rapidity—goods being either loaded direct from the ship's hold on to railway trucks or deposited into very spacious sheds. The discharging appliances on this quay will be operated by electricity, and will be of the most modern design. To the 31st December, 1906, there had been spent on works and interest on loans, £1,934,326/-

Industries.

The chief industries are the production of wool, mohair, brandy, wine, wheat, barley, oats, tobacco, fruit, lucerne and maize, and the breeding of horses, mules, cattle, goats, sheep and ostriches. The chief exports are diamonds, wool, copper ore, ostrich feathers, mohair, hides and skins. The chief imports are hardware and machinery, wearing apparel of all descriptions, and material therefor, sugar, coffee, other foodstuffs, timber (including manufactured articles), oils, tobacco, and wines and spirits.

The quantity of wine produced in the Colony during 1904, the census year, amounted to 5,686,672 gallons, spirits, to 1,534,069¾ gallons, and vinegar to 113,862¾ gallons, practically all consumed locally.

Ostrich breeding is carried on largely as heretofore, but farmers are now devoting more attention to the quality of the feathers in their breeding birds than in former years.

In 1860 the export of ostrich feathers was 2,287 lbs.; ten years later it was 28,768 lbs., while in 1905 it amounted to 471,024 lbs., valued at £1,081,187L

The exports of mohair at corresponding dates were respectively:—385 lbs., 403,153 lbs., 10,837,682 lbs. The export of wool had risen from 23,172,785 lbs. in 1860, to 48,822,562 lbs. in 1871, and stood at 63,473,934 lbs. in 1905, valued at £1,887,459/.

The export of wool and mohair, though showing for 1904 and 1905 a marked decrease on that of 1902, due to the drought which for a few years prevailed in the greater portion of the Colony, increased in 1906. The high price of slaughter stock has induced the farmers to turn their attention more to cross-breeding for the production of mutton, and this also has had some influence in the decreased export of wool. The tendency is, however, again in favour of breeding pure-woollen sheep.

The movement in the direction of grading and sorting of wool is gradually becoming general throughout the Colony. Every effort is being made to foster this movement, and the Government have arranged for expert demonstrations throughout the Colony, and sanguine hopes are entertained of successful results. Among other measures for the amelioration of the agricultural industries of the country, the doctrine of co-operation plays a great part, and efforts are being vigorously put forward to induce farmers to combine and organise their forces in developing both the production and the subsequent advantageous disposal of their produce. These efforts are already beginning to bear fruit.

The above undertakings are carried out under the direct supervision of the Department of Agriculture, which is also charged with the control of all matters connected with the Game Laws, animal industry and diseases, diseases of plants, the suppression of insect pests, viticulture, horticulture, and all other subjects allied with agriculture. Among the other important works being carried out are the investigation of agricultural conditions by means of experiment stations and plots, the distribution of new varieties of seeds, etc., to farmers for experimental purposes and the diffusion of agricultural knowledge among the farming community by means of the publications of the department as well as by lectures and demonstrations by its various
experts. The subject of agricultural education also falls within the scope of the department and a well-equipped Agricultural College exists at Elsenburg in the Stellenbosch division.

Large areas of the Colony are peculiarly adapted for the breeding of mules as the nature of the veld renders any other feeding unnecessary. The industry has been largely taken up in these areas and many farmers are importing jackasses for this purpose. In horse-breeding also there has been renewed activity, the practice of former years, viz., crossing the Colonial mares with English thoroughbred stallions, having been largely reverted to, and, on account of the large importation of racing stock, there is no lack of suitable sires in the country.

The Minister for Agriculture, through the Surveyor-General, also administers all matters connected with the Land Laws of the Colony, Geological Exploration and Survey. The Crown Forests of the Colony also come within his portfolio, being under the direct control of the Chief Conservator of Forests.

Lands.

Those desiring to acquire Crown Lands in the Cape Colony must now either compete at public auction at the sales of surveyed lands held under Act 15 of 1887 from time to time as occasion seems to demand in the various districts of the Colony, or they must apply for certain specified areas or farms which have been set aside for selection under Act 37 of 1882 or Act 40 of 1895.

Both these Acts were designed to enable sons of the soil without means, such as the sons of farmers, to obtain land without necessitating the investment of capital, and they require the applicant to select and name the piece of ground he requires; and if his request be entertained, a licence for five years is issued at a rental calculated at 5 per cent. on the capitalised assessed value of the land. Upon the termination of the licence and fulfilment of the conditions respecting occupation and (in the case of Act 37 of 1882) cultivation, the licensee is entitled to a title deed under Act 37 of 1882 on quit-rent tenure, and, under Act 40 of 1895, on payment of the purchase price in instalments extending over 15 years, the balance of unpaid instalments and the survey expenses being secured by a mortgage in favour of the Government.

Act 37 of 1882 deals with small holdings, not larger than 250 morgen, and is suitable for districts in the vicinity of markets where la petite culture may be carried on profitably, but Act 40 of 1895 is rather applicable to cattle or sheep runs of 3,000 to 6,000 morgen in extent, and is most suitable for pastoral districts.

Under Act 15 of 1887, farms in extent varying from the cattle ranch to the market garden or town building lot are surveyed by the Government, and advertised for sale from time to time to the highest bidder at an upset price. The price is assessed at the current market value in the district, and is of course subject to enhancement by competition, but the terms of payment are very easy, one-fifth of the price at which the land is sold being payable within the first 12 months—viz., one-tenth within 6 months and one-tenth within 12 months, and the remainder being secured by a first mortgage at 4 per cent. The balance of the purchase price may, if the purchaser desires it, be paid at once, or in portions of not less than £50 at a time. In case, however, the purchase price is less than £25 the whole amount must be paid in cash at once, or in equal instalments extending over 3 years, and bearing interest at 4 per cent. per annum from the date of sale.

Forests.

The total area reserved for forest purposes in the Cape Colony is approximately 660,000 morgen (1,800,000 acres). The attention of the Government has been given to the economical and systematic working of the Crown Forests. The Colony is divided into four Conservancies, each controlled by a Conservator of Forests stationed at Cape Town, King William's Town, Knysna and Umtata respectively, who are directly responsible to the Chief Conservator of Forests for the Colony. The present annual importation of timber into the Colony is about 3,000,000 cubic feet, mostly pine, derived from Europe and America, the balance being hardwood from Australia. There is at present a large importation of hardwood sleepers.

The Fishery Laws and the Guano Islands are also administered by the department, and in connection with the former a properly-equipped steam trawler, the Pieter Faure, was imported in 1897 with a view to opening up the Fishing Industry of the Colony. The work has been extended to Saldanha Bay, Mossel Bay, the L'Aguilhas Bank, and portions of the south-east coast, and has been of a most satisfactory nature, the trials made having proved that large quantities of fish are easily procurable by trawling. Private enterprise has now followed the prospecting work of the Government, and a trawler company is ending fish to Cape Town from the L'Aguilhas Bank near Mossel Bay. Two trawlers from Grimsby are landing weekly about 20 tons of fish, including numerous soles from the trawling ground discovered near Cape L'Aguilhas; several trawlers from Durban, East London, and Port Elizabeth, are working the new trawling area found near Bird Islands. The trout acclimatisation work is still being carried on with a most gratifying measure of success, and several rivers have now been opened for public fishing.

Diamonds.

The diamond fields of South Africa are situated in the territory known as Griqualand West, which became British territory by cession from the Griqua people in 1871, and remained a separate Colony until October, 1880, when it was annexed to the Cape Colony.

The first diamond was found by accident in 1867, and passed through many hands before its value was suspected. Even when it was admitted to be a diamond doubts were thrown on its origin. Nothing like an organised or systematic examination of the country was made for a long time.

A few diamonds, however, continued to be found, and in the year 1870 an exploring party, chiefly composed of officers of the 26th Regiment, then stationed at Natal, and another of Cape Colonists from King William's Town, proceeded to dig and wash the alluvial drift along the banks of the Vaal River. They soon found diamonds, and their success brought numerous other parties from all parts of the neighbouring Colonies and Republics. Operations were at this time confined to the river banks, which for many miles were covered with mining camps.
In 1871, however, the discovery was made that diamonds existed not only in the drift of the old river-bed near the present course of the Vaal, but in the loose red surface-sand covering the flat grassy country between that river and the Modder, a smaller stream which ultimately joins the Vaal. A vigorous, if not systematic, search soon resulted in the opening of the mines now being worked at and close to Kimberley, and the river banks were soon almost deserted for the more profitable Dry Diggings, where diamonds were found in unexampled profusion.

The River Diggings extend along the Vaal River, principally on the right bank from above Hebron to its junction with the Hart at Delport's Hope. The Dry Mines at present worked are at Kimberley, De Beers, Du Toit's Pan, Bultfontein, Wesselton, Kanfer's Dam, Otto's Kopje, the Leicester Mine, Smith's Prospect Mine, Otto's Prospect Mine. The alluvial diggings at present worked commence at Fourteen Streams, extending principally on the north bank of Vaal River to Delport's Hope, in the Division of Barkly West, and Douglas, in the Division of Herbert, including the Diggings known as Brypaal, Schmidts Drift Proper and Plat Drift; and opposite Hebron, and on the south bank, lie the Wedburg Kopje and the Robinson Diggings, in the Division of Kimberley; also on the south bank, below the village of Barkly and in the Division of Barkly West, lie the Waldeck Plant Diggings, Nickerk Rush and Vaal River Estates.

In October, 1899, an Act was promulgated (No. 11 of 1899) to consolidate and amend the laws relating to the prospecting and mining for precious stones in the Colony. This has been amended by Act No. 27 of 1907.

The following table gives the total quantity and value of the export of diamonds during the past five years:

| Year | Carats | Carats | Carats | Carats | Carats |
|------|--------|--------|--------|--------|--------|
| 1902 | 2,601,920 | 5,427,360 |        |        |        |
| 1903 | 2,694,618 | 5,472,690 |        |        |        |
| 1904 | 2,631,878 | 5,520,743 |        |        |        |
| 1905 | 2,335,616 | 4,501,659 |        |        |        |
| 1906 | 6,270,572 | 6,834,369 |        |        |        |

Other Minerals, &c.

Cape coal from various mines situated in the Stormberg is extensively used upon the Cape Government railways, with good results, both as regards the working of the lines and the development of an industry, the importance of which to the Colony cannot be overrated.

In the neighbourhood of the Indwe, trending in a north-east direction, are considerable tracts of Crown land as yet untested, but reported by mining and geological experts to be in all probability, the seat of valuable deposits of coal. It has been suggested that these beds may be connected with those found on the north-west border of Natal.

Mining operations on a large scale are carried on in the division of Namqualand, where extensive copper deposits exist. Much activity has recently been displayed in this direction owing to the increased demand for copper in manufactures.

The output from the mines during 1903 was 64,555 tons of ore, in 1904, 84,199 tons, and in 1905, 94,854 tons.

During the year 1897 a series of thorough comparative tests was made by the Railway Department of all coals (Welsh, Cape Colonial, Orange Free State and Transvaal) used by the Cape Locomotive Department. Of the mines which supplied the different samples of coal thus tested, twelve are situated in Cape Colony. The trials were carried out on the Eastern System of Railways between East London and Queenstown. The results obtained showed that the value of a given quantity of the best Cape coal, for use in locomotive or stationary engines, was, roughly speaking, about two-thirds that of an equal quantity of imported ocean Merthyr coal. Among the best Colonial coals for making steam are those from the following mines: Contat's, Penshaw, Indwe, Cape Collieries, and "Wallsend." The Indwe coal possesses the advantage, as regards its use in locomotives, of containing little or no sulphur. The Cyphergat and the Molteno coals are highly bituminous, and the latter has deservedly high reputation as house coal, but is not so suitable for locomotives as coal of a semi-anthracite nature, like "Wallsend."

The Indwe mine, which is situated in the division of Wodehouse, is connected with the Government railways by a line joining the Eastern system at Sterkstroom. All the other mines in the Colony are served by the Eastern system. The total output from the Colonial mines during the year 1906 is returned at 112,877 tons. The coal areas in the Colony are of considerable extent, and there is reason to hope that, with increased facilities in mining and transport, the output will improve in quantity and quality.

The laws regulating the working of baser minerals are Acts Nos. 9 of 1877 and 15 of 1883, under which regulations are published by G.N. 633 of 1900. These Acts are repealed by Act No. 16 of 1907, except in so far as they apply to existing baser mineral leases.

Precious Minerals.

Gold.

The Millwood Gold Fields, in the Division of Knysna, the Spreewuifontein Alluvial Diggings, in the Division of Prince Albert, and the Madibi Reef Digging, in the Division of Mafeking, are the only proclaimed gold fields in the Colony, and the total registered output to the 31st August, 1907, is 4,003 ozs. 0 dwts. 2 grs. In January, 1899, an Act (No. 31 of 1898) was promulgated to consolidate and amend the laws relating to the prospecting and mining for precious minerals in the Cape Colony, subsequently amended by Act 45 of 1905, and Act 16 of 1907.

Geological Survey.

The geological survey of the Colony was begun in 1896. The area mapped includes all that to the south-west of a line drawn from Van Rhyn's Dorp to Humansdorp, and nearly the whole of the area north of the Orange River—e.g., Bechuanaland, Griqualand West, and part of Gordonia. There have also been mapped the divisions of Aliwal North, Barkly East, Herschel, Xalanga, Elliot, Glen Grey, and Kentani, and portions of Prieska, Hopetown, Wodehouse, Queenstown, Uitenhage, Alexandria, and Matatiele.

Maps of some of these divisions have been published in the Reports for 1901 to 1905, but five sheets of the geological map of Cape Colony on the scale of 1,600 cape roods to the inch have been issued separately—e.g., three of the south-western districts and two of the northern. Several other sheets are in course of publication.
The formations hitherto met with in Cape Colony are classified as follows:

Recent or Superficial Deposits.

(Unconformity.)

Cretaceous system

Pondoland Cretaceous Series.

(Uncertainty.)

Uitenhage Series.

(Unconformity.)

† Karroo system

Stormberg Series.

Beaufort ",

Ecce ",

Dwyka ",

(Unconformity north of latitude 33°.)

† Cape system

Witteberg Series.

Bokkeveld ",

Table Mountain ",

(Unconformity.)

In South and West:

† Nieuwerust Series.

(Unconformity.)

† Ibiqwas Series.

(Unconformity.)

Pre-Cape rocks

† Cango Series.

(Unconformity.)

French Hoek Beds.

(Unconformity.)

* Malmsbury Series.

In North:

Matsap Series.

(Unconformity.)

Transvaal system

Griqua Town Series.

Campbell Rand Series.

Black Reef Series.

(Unconformity.)

Ventersdorp system

Pniel Series.

(Unconformity.)

Zoetlief Series.

Kraaipan Series.

(Unconformity.)

* 'Kheis Series.

Currency and Banking.

The legal tender currency is British sterling, and this is also the money of account.

Since the beginning of 1892, the banks having their head offices outside the Colony are only allowed to issue notes supplied to them by the Government, which holds securities deposited by the institution for the total supply of such notes given to the banks. The notes are legal tender and guaranteed by the Government, the banks having to redeem the notes in gold on demand at their chief places of business.

Banks having their head office in the Colony, and having been registered on the 1st January, 1891, can continue to issue their own notes, which are neither guaranteed nor legal tender.

There are 6 banks with 156 branches:—The Standard Bank of South Africa, Limited (98 branches), the Bank of Africa, Limited (25 branches), the African Banking Corporation, Limited (21 branches), the Stellenbosch District Bank, Limited, the National Bank of South Africa, Limited (9 branches), and the Netherlands Bank of South Africa.

* These formations have intrusions of granite and gneiss as well as of basic rocks associated with them.

† These formations have intrusions of basic rocks only.

The total amount of notes in circulation on the 30th of June, 1907, was 1,042,557L.; legal tender, 1,035,611L.; other, 6,946L.

Education.

Under the Education Act, No. 13 of 1865, School Board Act, No. 35 of 1905, and the Higher Education Act, No. 24 of 1874, the Department administers Parliamentary grants to colleges, and to the following classes of schools, viz.:—Undenominational public, district boarding, evening, private farm, poor, mission, aborigines, institutions, art schools, training schools for teachers, and industrial schools for poor whites, for the following purposes, viz.: part payment of salaries, purchase of buildings, furniture, apparatus, and books; training of teachers; support of indigent boarders.

Schools are managed and teachers appointed, subject to the control of the department, by School Boards and by local committees or managers.

The Government grants are, generally speaking, given to supplement local contributions of at least equal amount. The necessary grants are provided from the general revenue, and provision is made for the assessment of a local rate by Divisional or Municipal Councils to bear part of any actual shortage in the accounts of School Boards. The department further undertakes the periodical inspection of schools, collects and publishes educational statistics, and issues certificates of professional competency to teachers.

The School Board Act, No. 35 of 1905, provides for the division of the country into school districts under the control of School Boards elected by the local ratepayers, charged with the supervision of all public and poor schools.

The Government expenditure on education in 1906-07 was 537,840L. 6s. 10d. On the 30th of June, 1907, there were in operation five colleges and 3,750 schools of various classes.

The University.

Under Act No. 16 of 1873 was established the University of the Cape of Good Hope, whose power to confer the degrees of B.A., M.A., LL.B., LL.D., M.B., and M.D. has been recognised by Letters Patent dated 8th August, 1877. Chancellor: H.R.H. the Prince of Wales, K.G., K.T., K.P.

Under Act No. 6 of 1896, the University is empowered to confer the following additional degrees:—Litt.D., B.Sc., M.Sc., D.Sc., Bachelor of Music, Master of Music, Doctor of Music.

The University is aided by a Government grant, and its revenue is supplemented by endowment, etc. The Council consists of 38 members.

In 1906 the number of students who matriculated was 648, 148 passed the intermediate examination, and 66 took direct degrees.

In connection with the University, school examinations are held annually, 23,339 candidates have passed the elementary, and 11,055 the higher examination during the years 1875-1906.

Sea and Land Communications.

The packets of the Union-Castle Mail Steamship Company, under contract with the Colonial Government, leave England weekly on Saturdays, and the Cape (Table Bay) on Wednesdays, the passage to be effected in 16 days 15 hours, and
17 days 9 hours when the steamer is required to touch at St. Helena and Ascension. The distance by sea from England to the Cape varies from 5,866 to 6,146 miles, according to the course followed. The mail packets call at Madeira on the outward and homeward voyages. The St. Helena-Ascension service is performed by the intermediate steamers of the company, under agreement with the Imperial Post Office.

A mail train leaves Cape Town daily, at 11.30 a.m., serving Kimberley and the Transvaal. Another train leaves Cape Town daily at 8.30 p.m., serving the Orange River Colony and the Transvaal, the Midland and Eastern Districts of the Cape Colony and also Kimberley and Vryburg. The 11.30 a.m. train is extended four times weekly to Mafeking, and three times to Bulawayo; the one leaving Cape Town at 11.30 a.m. on Tuesdays connecting with the Rhodesia Train-de-Luxe, which runs from Kimberley on Wednesdays, arriving at the Victoria Falls on Saturday mornings, a first class saloon being run through from Cape Town.

On Thursdays the African Express Train-de-Luxe leaves Cape Town at 10.40 a.m. for Johannesburg and Pretoria, via the Orange River Colony, carrying first class passengers only.

In the opposite direction, the Imperial Mail Train-de-Luxe runs by the same route, leaving Pretoria and Johannesburg on Monday evenings, reaching Cape Town on Wednesdays at 2.5 p.m., and going right through to the Cape Town Docks, for the convenience of passengers for the mail steamer leaving for England on that day.

On Tuesdays a train conveying mails only is despatched from the docks to all parts of South Africa with the European mails brought by the incoming mail steamer.

The mail steamers leave Table Bay weekly for Natal, calling at Port Elizabeth and East London to land and embark passengers, while a weekly service to Port Elizabeth, East London, and Durban, and a fortnightly service to Mossel Bay, are also maintained by the intermediate steamers of the Union-Castle Company. The passage to Port Elizabeth takes two days, to East London three, and to Natal four to five.

A frequent but somewhat irregular service from Cape Town to the Australasian Colonies is maintained by the steamers of the Shaw, Savill, and Albion Company, the New Zealand Shipping Company, the Aberdeen Line, Lund's Blue Anchor Line, the White Star Line, and the German-Australian Steamship Company.

Communication is effected between Cape Town and the chief inland towns daily; with Natal daily, via the Transvaal; with the Orange River Colony daily; with Rhodesia (Mashonaland, &c.) three times a week; and with the Transvaal twice daily by rail, viz.—via Kimberley and Fourteen Streams, and, by another route, through the Orange River Colony. The former is the direct route to the Transvaal, and the journey from Cape Town is performed in little more than two days.

Transit between England and Johannesburg and Pretoria by this route is, therefore, about 19 days.

Overland communication is effected by rail between Cape Town and Delagoa Bay daily, through the Orange River Colony and the Transvaal. The journey is performed in four days.

The number of Colonial post offices is 1,060, and of money order offices, 362. The expenditure on the postal service amounted to £382,296/- in 1906; the revenue was £357,625/-, and the commission on money orders, £23,676/.

Post Office savings banks were established in 1884. On 31st December, 1906, there was a sum of £2,837,453/- deposited to the credit of 100,699 depositors. The interest allowed is 3 per cent. on deposits and 3½ per cent. on certificates. Number of branches, 357.

The telegraph system is well developed, there being now 31,741 miles of telegraph wire, and 5,999 miles of telephone wire open, erected by the Government at a cost of £79,879/-. The gross earnings in 1906 being £199,706/-, and the expenditure £22,271/-. Number of telegraph offices, 590.

The Colony is in telegraphic communication with Europe, via Loanda and Bathurst, and via St. Helena, Ascension, and St. Vincent, by the Western route, and via Natal, by the Zanzibar and Aden cable, and with Australia, via Durban, Mauritius and Cocos.

The weights and measures in use are British; besides which there are the morgen=2¼ acres, the Cape foot=1'03 feet, and the Cape ton =2,000 lbs.

Population and Chief Towns.

At the census of 1904 the total population of the Colony was found to be 2,409,804, comprising 1,218,940 males, and 1,190,864 females. The population according to race was: Europeans, 579,741; Malays, 15,682; Hottentots, 91,260; Fingoes, 310,720; Kaffirs, 1,114,067; and other coloured persons, 298,334.

Cape Town, which had in 1891 a population of 51,251, had at the census a population of 77,668, and with its suburbs, connected by rail and tramway, 169,641, as compared with 78,866 in 1891. The Cape division, which includes Cape Town, had, in 1865, a population of 50,064; in 1875, 57,319; in 1891, 97,283; and, in 1904, 213,167, of which 129,475 were European or white.

The population of the other principal towns was: Kimberley, 34,331; Port Elizabeth, 32,959; Beaconfield, 9,378; Grahamstown, 13,887; Paarl, 11,293; King William's Town, 9,506; East London, 25,220; Graaff Reinet, 10,083; Worcester, 7,885; Uitenhage, 12,193; Cradock, 7,762; Oudtshoorn, 8,849; Queenstown, 9,616; Stellenbosch, 4,969; and Somerset East, 5,216.

The following is a brief abstract of the 1904 census returns:

The number of persons of European descent has been estimated as follows:—Dutch and French origin, 230,000; English, Scotch, Irish, etc., 130,000; other Europeans, 16,000.

The European, or white, then, represents one-quarter, and the coloured races three-quarters of the total population of the whole Colony, whereof one-fifth is urban. The proportion of females is now 97·70 to every 100 males of the total population, and the average number of persons to the square mile was 8·70. The number of inhabited dwellings was 455,999, of which 434 were not intended for dwelling-houses, though used as such.

Birthplaces.—2,274,130 persons had Africa for a birthplace, 118,377 Europe, 10,387 Asia, 3,011 America, 3,654 Australasia, 118 were born at sea, and the birthplaces of 127 were unknown or unspecified. 98·38 per cent. of the population are British subjects by birth.

Religions.—Protestants numbered 1,305,453; Catholics, 38,118; Jews, 19,537; Mohammedans, 22,623; other sects, 4,297; no religion, 1,016,255; unspecified, 3,286; and 235 persons objected to
state their religion. Protestants may be divided as follows:—Dutch Reformed Church, 399,487; Gereformeerde Kerk, 6,209; English Church, 281,433; Presbyterians, 88,600; Congregationalists, 112,202; Methodists, 290,264; Lutherans, 80,902; Baptists, 14,105; other Protestants, 32,191.

### Ages

999,829 persons were between 0 to 14 years.
984,399 " " " 15 to 39 "
268,735 " " " 40 to 59 "
110,355 " " " 55 to 69 "
45,507 " " " 70 years and over.
979 " " " unspecified.

### Education.—The degrees of education possessed were as follows:

#### Read and Write.

Total . 621,037—332,594 males; 288,443 females.
European 434,827—241,343 ,, 193,484 ,, 

#### Read only.

Total . 45,897—23,517 males; 22,380 females.
European 10,338—5,788 ,, 4,550 ,, 

#### Neither Read nor Write.

Total 1,735,491—859,716 males; 875,775 females.
European 133,569—70,800 ,, 62,769 ,, 

#### Unspecified.

Total . 7,379—3,113 males; 4,266 females.
European 1,007—613 ,, 394 ,, 

The percentage of Europeans 0-14 years and 15 years and over, according to the different degrees of education, were as follows:

| Degree of Education | 0-14 Years | 15 Years and over |
|---------------------|------------|------------------|
|                     | Males      | Females          | Males   | Females |
| Read and Write      | 38·24      | 40·10            | 94·48   | 96·22   |
| Read only           | 3·67       | 3·17             | 0·89    | 0·81    |
| Neither Read nor Write | 57·72     | 56·47            | 4·53    | 2·89    |
| Unspecified         | 0·37       | 0·26             | 0·10    | 0·08    |

Total . 100·00 100·00 100·00 100·00

### Conjugal Condition.—A brief abstract of the return follows:

| Total | European |
|-------|----------|
|       | Males    | Females | Males | Females |
| Married | 352,828 | 385,735 | 96,745 | 87,285 |
| Widowed | 20,396  | 85,911  | 5,904  | 13,109 |
| Single  | 842,911 | 714,383 | 215,516 | 160,551 |
| Divorced | 1,304   | 3,851   | 233    | 204    |
| Unspecified | 1,501 | 984 | 146 | 48 |

### Occupations.

| Class                  | Total all Races | European or White |
|------------------------|-----------------|-------------------|
|                        | Males | Females | Males | Females |
| Professional           | 29,100 | 9,211   | 24,611 | 7,591   |
| Domestic               | 17,195 | 261,575 | 4,633  | 94,686  |
| Commercial             | 65,812 | 3,463   | 43,050 | 3,100   |
| Agricultural           | 524,228 | 483,246 | 72,802 | 38,573  |
| Industrial             | 168,860 | 9,029   | 61,080 | 6,198   |
| Indefinite             | 3,342  | 5,955   | 2,609  | 3,418   |
| Dependant              | 407,311 | 414,407 | 107,842 | 107,140 |
| Unspecified            | 3,092  | 1,978   | 1,317  | 691     |

### Sickness and Infirmities.

—13,844 persons (8,185 males and 5,659 females) were returned as disabled by sickness or accident, and 15,077 (9,528 males and 5,549 females) as afflicted by infirmities, 2,802 being blind, 1,016 deaf and dumb, 829 idiotic, 2,190 lunatic, 579 epileptic, 1,198 paralytic, 1,230 leprous, 5,233 maimed, lamed and deformed.

The population of Bechuanaland, as ascertained at the census of 1904, was: Europeans, 9,368; Malays, 28; Hottentots, 3,331; Fingoes, 1,263; Kaffirs and Bechuana, 64,204; mixed and others, 6,276.

The population of Pondoland at the Census of 1904 was 1,113 Europeans, 3 Malays, 130 Hottentots, 13,067 Fingoes, 187,442 Kaffirs and Bechuana, and 1,002 mixed and others.

In the Colony proper the European birth rate in 1904 was computed to be 31·81 per 1,000, the Coloured rate at 30·77. The death rate amongst Europeans was 12·61 per 1,000, and the Coloured rate 25·42, during the same year.

### Constitution.

The Government of the Cape from 1806 to 1835 was administered by a Governor, aided by a few Executive Officers; but in that year an Executive Council and a Legislative Council, appointed by the Crown, comprising certain office-holders and some unofficial members, were created.

By Letters Patent, dated 23rd May, 1850, the Governor and Council were empowered to enact Ordinances for the establishment of a Representative Government; three years later, that form of Government was brought into force. By an Act of the Colonial Legislature passed in the session of 1872, the introduction of the system of Responsible Government, that is the conduct of the Executive Government by the advice of Ministers responsible to the Local Parliament, was pronounced advisable, and the Royal Assent to the measure was given by an Order in Council dated the 9th August, 1872. The first Ministry under Responsible Government was formed in November, 1872.

There is a Legislative Council of 26 elected Members, presided over, ex officio, by the Chief Justice, and a House of Assembly of 107 elected Members, representing the country districts and towns of the Colony, including the Transkeian territories. The Colonial Ministers are the Prime Minister, the Colonial Secretary, the Treasurer, the Attorney-General, the Commissioner of Public Works, and the Secretary for Agriculture, all of whom are Members of the Legislature and also have seats in the Executive Council, of which the Governor is President. The session lasts usually from March to June.
Act No. 18 of 1874 provided for the division of the Colony into seven electoral provinces, each electing three members for the Legislative Council for seven years. Under the Griqualand West Annexation Act, 39 of 1877, a member is added to the Council for that Province, and one has been since added for Bechuanaland (Act No. 41 of 1885). Under the Additional Parliamentary Representation Act of 1904 an additional member is added to the Council for the Western, South-Eastern and Eastern Electoral Provinces respectively, who are thus now entitled to return 4 members each, and 12 new members were added to the House of Assembly. The qualification for Members is possession of immovable property of £2,000, or movable property worth £4,000. With the exception of paid office-holders (other than the Ministers), and others specified in the Order in Council, any person may be elected a Member of Assembly. For the purpose of the House of Assembly elections the Colony is divided into 46 electoral divisions. Members of both Houses are elected by the same voters, who are qualified (see Ballot and Franchise Act of 1892) by possession of property worth £50, or receipt of salary or wages of not less than £50 per annum; but no one can be newly registered as a voter unless he can sign his name and write his address and occupation. The number of registered electors in 1907 was 151,317.* The Registration Act, No. 14 of 1887, makes a better provision for the machinery of registration and for the exclusion of unqualified persons, especially those whose only qualification is a share in tribal occupancy, and further provision in the direction of improved machinery is made in the Parliamentary Representation Act, No. 19 of 1898, the Registration of Parliamentary Voters Amendment Act No. 48 of 1899, and in the Parliamentary Indemnity Act, No. 5 of 1902.

Elections are now conducted under the Ballot Act, as amended by Act No. 48 of 1899.

Members of either House are paid one guinea per day, with 1½s. per day extra for not more than 90 days if residing over 15 miles from Capetown. Speeches may be made either in English or in Dutch (Law No. 1 of 1882).

By an Act, No. 5 of 1875, the Ecclesiastical Endowments provided by the Civil List Ordinance of 1852 were abolished prospectively, the life interests of incumbents being respected.

The Supreme Court, as consolidated by Act 35 of 1896, consists of one Chief Justice and eight Puisne Judges; three of whom are assigned to the Court of the Eastern Districts, and three to the High Court of Griqualand. Within the jurisdiction of the Court of the Eastern Districts fall the territories known as Transkei, Griqualand, Pondoland and Tembuland.

The Judges of the "Supreme Court" hold sessions in Cape Town, and Circuit Courts in the Western Districts; the Judges of "The Eastern Districts Court," hold sessions in Grahamstown, and Circuit Courts in the principal towns of the Eastern Districts, and Transkei, and the Judges of the High Court hold sessions at Kimberley.

The Roman-Dutch Law prevails in the Colony, as modified by Colonial Legislation. A "Native Territories Penal Code" came into operation for the Transkei, Griqualand East, Tembuland, and Port St. John's on 1st January, 1887.

* These figures are subject to amendment.

By Act No. 3 of 1890, the Supreme Court has been constituted a Court of Appeal under the Africa Order in Council of 1889, and a similar arrangement exists for Rhodesia.

Local Government.

Divisional Councils were first established in the year 1855; they then exercised authority over branch roads only, and performed certain functions in connection with district schools, pounds and Crown lands. They have now been relieved of all duties in regard to schools and lands, but with these exceptions their powers and functions have been gradually increased and amplified. The councils are elected triennially, and consist of six to eight elective members, exclusive of the Civil Commissioner, who is usually also Resident Magistrate, as chairman, excepting in the Cape Division, which returns fourteen members. The electors are the owners or occupiers of immovable property, and the qualifications of members are registration as voters and registered ownership of immovable property in the division valued at not less than £500. The maintenance of all roads now rests with the councils, and they also have important duties to discharge in regard to disputed land boundaries and beacons; can nominate Field Cornets; may borrow money on the security of rates for the prosecution of local public works; may promote the establishment of a Divisional Police Force on payment to Government of one-third of the cost of such force; and return three members annually to the District Licensing Court. The revenue of these councils is derived from toll fees, pound sales, and road rates. They were 78 in number in 1907, and their receipts during the year 1906 amounted to £232,400. Payments for the same period amounted to £230,279. The accounts are subject to audit by two auditors elected triennially by the registered voters of the division, and also to a final audit by the Controller and Auditor-General of the Colony.

Municipalities were first established by an Ordinance in 1836. In 1882 an Act was passed consolidating and amending all laws then existing in regard to these boards. Every municipality is governed by a council, composed of a mayor or chairman, and councillors, numbering not less than 6 nor more than 24, a certain number of whom are elected annually by the ratepayers. Certain municipalities are under special Acts, but all Town Councils or municipalities under the General Municipal Act, 1882, have power to levy annually a landlord's or owner's rate, assessed upon the value of rateable property, and a tenant's rate assessed upon the annual value of such property; no rate to exceed 2d. in the £ on the value, or 8d. in the £ on the annual value.

All mayors or chairmen are members of District Licensing Courts. There are 119 municipalities in the Colony, the receipts from all sources during the year 1906 amounted to £1,523,650, which includes £184,594 loans raised. Payments during the same period amounted to £1,753,664. The Controller and Auditor-General has no general control over municipal accounts.

Village management boards, of which there are 86 in the Colony, exist chiefly in hamlets which are not entrusted with full municipal privileges. The Act of 1881, under which these boards were established, may be proclaimed to be in force upon petition of the inhabitants. There are 3 or 5 members elected annually by the voters registered for Parliamentary purposes, resident within the area defined by proclamation. These boards
have no power to levy rates; this is done for them by the divisional council at their request, to an amount not exceeding 3d. in the £ within the limits of the village boards' jurisdiction. The powers and duties of these boards are of the same nature as, although in most respects more restricted than, those of municipalities. Their revenues amounted in 1905-6 to 8,562l. 10s., excluding balances.

**Defence.**

There is an extensive Admiralty establishment and several forts at Simon's Bay, and to defend this Naval station an Imperial garrison is stationed at Cape Town and Wynberg. The defence of the Colony from native attacks, however, devolves since 1871 upon Colonial forces. These now consist of the Cape Mounted Riflemen (705 strong) and the Cape Mounted Police (1,743 strong), liable in an emergency, which are permanently embodied and paid. There are also 83 Volunteer Corps, and Cadet Corps, of all arms, numbering 10,935 men (with 19 guns), maintained by a capitation grant. Table Bay has been strongly fortified at the joint expense of the War Office and the Colonial Government.

**Dependent Territories.**

**Basutoland,** which formed a portion of the Cape Colony from August, 1871, down to 1884, is now an independent territory, administered by a Resident Commissioner under the instructions of His Majesty's High Commissioner in South Africa. Accounts of Basutoland, as well as of the Bechuanaland Protectorate, which is in nearly the same political position, will be found under the heading of South Africa.

**The Northern Border.**—Early in 1878, while the war with the Amaxosa was being carried on, a number of Koranas, Griquas, Kaffirs, and others living along the Orange River, took up arms against the Colony, their object being simply plunder. It was difficult to move a military force to such a remote quarter, and it was more than a year before the insurrection could be suppressed. A magistrate, with a body of police, was then stationed at Upington, on the northern bank of the Orange. Since this date there have been no further disturbances. The northern border establishment was broken up, and the Special Commissioner recalled, on 30th June, 1888. The territory now forms the "Gordonia" district of British Bechuanaland, now annexed to Cape Colony (see below).

**Fingoland, Idutywa Reserve,** and **Noman's Land,** as explained in Par. 1 of this Article, were annexed to the Cape in October, 1879.

In 1877 the Gcalekas, a tribe residing beyond the Kei, under Kreil, one of the leaders of the great Kaffir war of 1850-53, defied the authority of the British Government and invaded what is now British territory. They were, however, defeated by the Colonial forces under the immediate leadership of Col. C. D. Griffith, C.M.G., then Commandant of the Frontier Armed and Mounted Police. Their territory was overrun, and Kreil deposed, and his country taken as British in October, 1877.

In 1875-76 the Tembus, of Tembuland proper, gave themselves over to the Government, and in 1878 the Bomvanas did the same.

While giving effect to the desire of these tribes to come under the Cape Government, it was also arranged to include in the same scheme of incorporation Gcalekaland and a settlement of native British subjects called the Emigrant Tembus.

They are governed by officials paid by the Cape Government, and under its supervision.

The above-named territories, viz., Tembuland, Emigrant Tembuland, Bomvanaland, and Gcalekaland, were formally proclaimed British territory in November, 1881, and in 1885 they were annexed to the Cape Colony.

In 1885, the Chief Kreil requested to be placed on the same footing as the others, and was located in Bomvanaland, on a tract of land purchased from the Chief of the Bomvanas, Pairi, chief of the Ametshezi, who had previously been living in practical independence in Lower Tembuland, formally tendered his submission to Colonial rule in 1886, and he and his people were registered in the same manner as the Tembus.

The PondoMisi tribe, under the chiefs Um-ditshwa and Umhlonhlo, and some of the most powerful clans, allied with the Tembu tribe, took up arms against the Colony at the outbreak of the Basuto Rebellion. The Tembus proper aided the Colony. The insurrection was suppressed, and a re-settlement of the lands previously occupied by the insurgents effected, by which greater security in the future is promised.

The Cape Colony customs dues are levied at St. John's River mouth, under a Proclamation dated 2nd August, 1881. The port was annexed to the Colony in 1884.

Under a Proclamation of Sir Bartle Frere, dated the 4th September, 1878, Umqikela, for breach of treaty arrangements, ceased to be recognised as paramount chief of the Pondos, and the sovereignty of the port and estuary of St. John's River was vested in Her Majesty's Government. A Resident was appointed to represent the Government with Umqikela, who remained Chief of East Pondoland. Umqikela died in October, 1887, and in February, 1888, his son Sigcaw was elected to succeed him. A Resident Commissioner in Pondoland was appointed on 6th July, 1888.

In March, 1894, in consequence of the failure of Sigcaw and Nqwiliso to put a stop to the cruelties and misrule prevailing in Pondoland, they were required to submit to Colonial rule, and magistrates were placed in the country. By Act of the Cape Parliament, No. 5 of 1894, the whole country was annexed to the Colony.

West Pondoland was, until the date of annexation, under the Chief Nqwiliso. A small strip of his territory at the mouth of the St. John's River was acquired by the Cape Government for 1,000l.

The district of Mount Ayliff, or the Xesibe country, after having long been administered as a dependency of Griqualand East, was formally annexed to the Colony in October, 1886, and the Rode Valley in October, 1887.

The whole of these territories are now subject to Colonial rule, and had a revenue of 171,153l. in 1903-4. All of this is included in the ordinary Colonial revenue.

They are now re-grouped under one Chief Magistrate, stationed at Umtata, and assisted by Assistant Chief Magistrates at Umtata and Kokstad.

Griqualand East has nine subordinate magistrates. Its population at the Census of 1904 was Europeans, 5,901; Bantu, 212,069; mixed, 4,062.
Tembuland, comprising Tembuland proper, Bomvanaland, Emigrant Tembuland, and East and West Pondoland, has fourteen subordinate magistrates. It has a population of—Europeans, 8,056; Bantu, 221,313; mixed, 1,327.

Transkei, comprising Fingoland, the Idutywa Reserve, Gcalekaland, has six subordinate magistrates. It has a population of—Europeans, 1,707; Bantu, 175,682; mixed, 197.

BRITISH BECHUANALAND.—On the 30th of September, 1885, the territories south of the Molopo river and of the Ramathlabama spruit were declared to be British territory under the name of British Bechuanaland, and a commission was issued to the Governor of the Cape to be its Governor, with power to legislate by proclamation. The territory was annexed to the Cape Colony on the 16th of November, 1885.

Statistics and Trade.

| Year (ended | Revenue, Actual | Expenditure, Votes | Entered and Cleared Year ended 31st Dec. | SHIPPI NG | British Tonnage | Total Tonnage |
|------------|----------------|--------------------|----------------------------------------|-----------|----------------|---------------|
|            |                |                    |                                        | Entered   |                |               |
|            |                |                    |                                        | Cleared   |                |               |
|            |                |                    |                                        | Year      |                |               |
|            |                |                    |                                        | ended     |                |               |
|            |                |                    |                                        | 31st      |                |               |
|            |                |                    |                                        | Dec.      |                |               |

1897 £7,380,965 £6,852,385 12,137,192 12,853,405
1898 £6,536,475 £7,082,255 12,553,291 13,427,354
1899 £6,317,574 £6,803,041 13,887,758 14,971,057
1900 £6,326,274 £6,677,651 17,314,244 18,672,736
1901 £7,957,499 £7,990,161 17,318,681 18,899,833
1902 £9,050,371 £8,617,626 20,416,975 22,584,951
1903 £11,701,150 £11,197,970 19,320,940 21,632,111
1904 £9,913,855 £10,862,866 19,678,617 22,174,003
1905 £8,472,302 £9,149,497 19,952,264 22,518,286
1906 £8,236,880 £8,231,719 19,533,569 22,434,885

Public Debt, 31st December, 1906.

Debt of General Government . . . . . . £37,901,226
Debt of Corporate Bodies (under guarantee). . . . . . . . . . 6,078,886

Imports Oversea.

| Year | From U.K. | From Possessions | Elsewhere | Total |
|------|-----------|-----------------|-----------|-------|
|      |           |                 |           |       |
| 1902| 18,766,164| 2,592,708       | 7,640,739 | 28,999,611|
| 1903| 19,455,980| 1,738,154       | 9,726,796 | 30,920,930|
| 1904| 12,408,889| 2,033,324       | 5,009,045 | 19,451,258|
| 1905| 11,083,510| 2,284,930       | 3,964,042 | 17,332,482|
| 1906| 10,204,315| 1,944,207       | 4,909,262 | 17,057,784|

Exports Oversea.*

| Year | To U.K. | To Possessions | Elsewhere | Total |
|------|---------|---------------|-----------|-------|
|      |         |               |           |       |
| 1902| 15,484,850| 4,819        | 281,992   | 15,771,670|
| 1903| 21,601,562| 10,188       | 275,350   | 21,887,100|
| 1904| 25,190,410| 12,936       | 916,074   | 26,119,420|
| 1905| 31,701,252| 4,161        | 1,582,641 | 33,287,454|
| 1906| 38,400,304| 7,205        | 1,222,170 | 39,629,679|

* Imported goods re-exported and imported goods shipped as stores are excluded from these figures.

List of Governors since 1877.

1877 Sir H. Bartle E. Frere, Bart., G.C.B., G.C.S.I.
1880 Major-General Sir H. H. Clifford, V.C., K.C.M.G., C.B. (Administrator).
1880 Major Sir G. C. Strahan, K.C.M.G. (Administrator).
1881 Sir H. G. R. Robinson, G.C.M.G.
1882 Lieut.-Gen. Hon. Sir Leicester Smyth, K.C.M.G., C.B. (Administrator).
1883 The Rt. Hon. Sir H. G. R. Robinson, G.C.M.G.
1886 Lieut.-Gen. Sir H. D'O. Torrens, K.C.B. (Administrator).
1887 The Rt. Hon. Sir H. G. R. Robinson, G.C.M.G.
1889 Lieut.-Gen. H. A. Smyth (Administrator).
1889 Sir H. Brougham Loch, G.C.B., G.C.M.G.
1891 Lieut.-Gen. W. G. Cameron, C.B. (Administrator).
1891 Sir H. B. Loch, G.C.B., G.C.M.G.
1892 Lieut.-Gen. W. G. Cameron, C.B. (Administrator).
1892 Sir H. B. Loch, G.C.B., G.C.M.G.
1894 General Sir W. G. Cameron, K.C.B. (Administrator).
1894 Sir H. B. Loch, G.C.B., G.C.M.G. (afterwards Lord Loch).
1895 Lieut.-Gen. W. H. Goodenough, C.B. (Administrator).
1895 The Rt. Hon. Sir H. G. R. Robinson, Bt., G.C.M.G. (afterwards Lord Rosemead).
1897 Sir Alfred Milner, G.C.B., G.C.M.G.
1901 The Hon. Sir Walter Francis Hely-Hutchinson, G.C.M.G.

Ministries since 1878.

| Name of Premier | Date |
|----------------|------|
| J. Gordon Sprigg | 6th February, 1878 |
| Sir Thomas Scanlen, K.C.M.G. | 9th May, 1881 |
| Thomas Upington | 10th May, 1884 |
| Sir J. Gordon Sprigg, K.C.M.G. | 23rd Nov., 1886 |
| The Rt. Hon. Sir J. Rhodes | 17th July, 1890 |
| The Rt. Hon. Sir J. Gordon Sprigg, K.C.M.G. | 4th May, 1893 |
| The Hon. Wm. Phillip Schreiner, K.C.M.G. | January, 1896 |
| The Rt. Hon. Sir J. Gordon Sprigg | 14th October, 1896 |
| The Rt. Hon. Dr. L. S. Jameson, P.C., C.B. | 18th June, 1900 |
| The Rt. Hon. Dr. L. S. Jameson, P.C., C.B. | 22nd Feb., 1904 |
| The Hon. J. X. Merriman | 3rd Feb., 1908 |

THE EXECUTIVE COUNCIL.

Governor.

His Excellency the Hon. Sir Walter Francis Hely-Hutchinson, G.C.M.G. (Commission dated February 9th, 1901. Assumed Office March 9th, 1901).

Members who are in the Ministry.

Hon. J. X. Merriman, Premier and Treasurer.
Hon. J. W. Sauer, Minister of Public Works.
Hon. F. S. Malan, Minister of Agriculture.
Hon. N. F. de Waal, Colonial Secretary.
Hon. H. Burton, Attorney-General.
Hon. H. L. Currey and Hon. D. P. De Villiers Graaff, Ministers without portfolio.
Members who are not in the Ministry.

William Downes Griffith. 24th March, 1866.
The Right Hon. Sir John Henry de Villiers, P.C., K.C.M.G. (Chief Justice).
Sir Charles Abercrombie Smith, Kt., M.A. 2nd December, 1872.
The Right Hon. Sir John Gordon Sprigg, P.C., G.C.M.G. 6th February, 1873.
James Weston Leonard, K.C. 28th January, 1881.
Sir Thomas Charles Scanlen, K.C.M.G. 9th March, 1881.
John Hendrik Hofmeyr. 9th May, 1881.
Sir Jacobus Albertus de Wet, K.C.M.G. 13th May, 1884.
Sir James Rose-Innes, K.C., K.C.M.G. 17th July, 1890.
Sir James Sivewright, K.C.M.G., M.L.A. 17th July, 1890.
Sir Pieter Hendrik Faure, K.C.M.G., M.L.A. 17th July, 1890.
William Philip Schreiner, K.C., C.M.G. 4th May, 1893.
Sir John Frost, K.C.M.G., C.M.G., M.L.A. 8th May, 1893.
Sir Henry Hubert Juta, Kt., K.C., M.L.A. 28th December, 1893.
Dr. Thomas Nicholas German Te Water. 17th January, 1896.
Thomas Lynedoch Graham, K.C., M.L.C. 13th May, 1898.
Albertus Johannes Herholdt. 14th October, 1898.
Sir Richard Solomon, K.C., K.C.M.G. 14th October, 1898.

Clerk to the Council, Herbert Gordon Watson.

* Legislative Council.

President, Chief Justice The Right Honourable Sir J. H. de Villiers, P.C., K.C.M.G., 500l.
Chairman of Committees, The Hon. William Ross, 100l.
Clerk to Council and Officer in Charge of Books, H. P. Barnett-Clarke, 800l.
Usher of the Black Rod, The Hon. R. P. Botha, 400l.
Assistant Clerk, Shorthand Writer, and Taxing Officer, John Fairbairn, 500l.
Clerk of the Papers and Committee Clerk, M. J. Green, 350l.
Messenger, J. McIntyre.
Assistant Messenger, D. Romans.

Members.

Western Province:

North-Western Province:

South-Western Province:

Midland Province:

South-Eastern Province:

North-Eastern Province:

Eastern Province:

Griqualand West:

British Bechuanaland:

* House of Assembly.

Hon. Sir Bisset Berry, Kt., Speaker, 1,500l.
T. P. Theron, Chairman of Committees, 400l.
E. F. Kilpin, C.M.G., Clerk of the House, 1,200l.
D. H. Visser, Assistant Clerk, 500l.
C. N. Thomas, Sergeant-at-Arms, 400l.
S. S. Rumble, Shorthand Writer and Committee Clerk, 300l.
W. A. Elias, Assistant Shorthand Writer and Committee Clerk, 200l.
C. G. Murray, Translator and Clerk, 300l.
Ralph Kilpin, Clerk of Papers, 120l.

Constituencies. Members.

Albany . . . .
Albert . . . .
Aliwal North . . .
Barkly West . . .
Beaufort West . . .
Caledon . . . .
Cape Town . . . .
Cathcart . . . .
Clanwilliam . . . .
Colesberg . . . .

* A general election was in progress in Feb., 1908.
### Constituencies

| Constituencies          | Members |
|-------------------------|---------|
| Cradock                 |         |
| East London             |         |
| Fort Beaufort           |         |
| George                  |         |
| Graaff-Reinet           |         |
| Graham's Town           |         |
| Griqualand East         |         |
| Humansdorp              |         |
| Jansenville             |         |
| Kimberley               |         |
| King William's Town     |         |
| Mafeking                |         |
| Malmesbury              |         |
| Middelburg              |         |
| Namaqualand             |         |
| Oudtshoorn              |         |
| Paarl                   |         |
| Piquetberg              |         |
| Port Elizabeth          |         |
| Prieska                 |         |
| Queen's Town            |         |
| Richmond                |         |
| Riversdale              |         |
| Simon's Town            |         |

### Constituencies

| Constituencies          | Members |
|-------------------------|---------|
| Somerset East           |         |
| Stellenbosch            |         |
| Swellendam              |         |
| Tembuland               |         |
| Uitenhage               |         |
| Victoria East           |         |
| Victoria West           |         |
| Vryburg                 |         |
| Wodehouse               |         |
| Woodstock               |         |
| Worcester               |         |
| Wynberg                 |         |

### Governor’s Establishment

- **Governor**, The Hon. Sir W. Holy-Hutchinson, G.C.M.G., 8,000l.
- **Private Secretary**, Captain W. A. Gordon, 500l.
- **Col. Aide-de-Camp and Military Secretary**, vacant.
- **Aide-de-Camp**, Lieut. N. A. B. Baillie-Hamilton, 400l.
- **Extra Aide-de-Camp**, Lieut. W. P. Nunneley.
- **Chief Clerk**, H. G. Watson, 450l.
- **Clerk**, H. A. Drummond-Hay, 300l.

### Department of Prime Minister

- **Prime Minister**, The Hon. J. X. Merriman.
- **Secretary**, R. Sothern Holland, 500l.
- **Clerks**, A. H. Harrison, 325l.; E. L. Massey, 200l.
- **Shorthand Writer and Typist**, Miss E. Upington, 132l.

### Native Affairs Branch

- **Minister**, Secretary to the Native Affairs Department, E. E. Dower, 700l.
- **Acting Chief Clerk**, E. Barrett, 350l.
- **Clerks**, S. D. Snooke, 300l.; A. N. Macfadyen, B.A., 300l.; A. L. Barrett, 240l.; A. A. Culligan, 200l.; E. F. Godfrey, 180l.; L. J. Philip, 135l.; P. A. Linington, 135l.; R. S. B. M. Hickson-Mahony, 135l.

### Accounting Branch

- **Accounting Officer**, E. E. Dower (draws salary as Secretary).
- **Accountant**, E. W. H. Morris, 525l.
- **Book-keeper**, B. G. Clark, 220l.
- **Examiner**, J. A. E. Cooke, 165l.
Ndadbeni Location (Maitland).

A.R.M., G. M. B. Whitheld, 200l., quarters.
Clerk, C. E. Dovey, 150l.
Superintendent of Police, C. H. W. Roberts, 150l., quarters.
Acting Medical Officer, Dr. J. Mackenzie, 6s. per day.

Division of Barkly West (Klipdam).

Inspector of Native Locations, W. H. Hall, 375l., house allowance, 50l., commuted travelling allowance, 50l., and 6l. office rent.

Division of East London.

Inspector of Locations, W. R. Ellis, 250l., commuted travelling allowance, 50l., and 6l. office rent.

Division of Fort Beaufort.

Inspectors of Native Locations, R. D. Henry, 295l., commuted travelling allowance, 50l.

Division of Glen Grey.

C.C. and R.M. (vacant), H. G. Eedes (acting).
Clerks, H. G. Eedes, 325l.; M. W. Hartley, 180l.; F. C. Pinkerton, 180l.; F. J. Kockott, 165l.
Inspector of Native Locations, Labour Agent, and Collector of Labour Tax, Lady Frere, G. E. Nightingale, 275l., quarters, commuted travelling allowance, 50l., and 15l. allowance as Process Issuer.
Inspector of Native Locations and Collector of Revenue, Bolotwa, H. G. Fynn, 275l., commuted travelling allowance, 50l.

Division of Hay.

Inspector of Native Locations, J. A. Louw, 72l., office rent, 6l.

Division of Herbert.

Inspector of Native Locations, C. E. H. Orpen, 280l., commuted travelling allowance, 50l., and 15l. per annum (office rent).

Division of Herschel.

C.C. and R.M., W. G. W. Wright, 500l. and quarters.
Clerks, E. G. Lonsdale, 300l. and quarters; S. E. Humphreys, 120l.
Inspectors of Locations, Capt. A. G. Turner, D.S.O., 250l., quarters, commuted travelling allowance, 50l.; C. B. Bousfield, 250l., commuted travelling allowance, 50l.

Division of Kimberley.

Chief Registrar of Servants, H. P. Tillard, 550l.; allowances 50l. (travelling), 50l. (local).
Registrars of Servants, S. P. Stephens, 8s. 9d. per day.
E. H. von Plaster, 10s. per day.
C. Barnes, 8s. per day.
F. W. Hyde, 7s. 6d. per day.
Interpreters, Mkululi Num, 130l.; D. J. Mosuarg, 72l.
Protector of Natives, G. W. Barnes, 350l., 50l. house, 50l. local, and 100l. travelling.

Division of King William's Town.

Tamacha.—Special Magistrate and Superintendent of Natives, R. J. Dick, 600l., house allowance 50l., forage allowance, 50l.
Clerks, R. F. Cumming, 425l.; W. N. Seti, 200l.; D. C. Murray, 120l.

Division of Komgyha.

Inspector of Native Locations, O. H. R. Nicholls, 200l., commuted travelling allowance, 50l.

Division of Peddie.

Inspector of Native Locations, J. T. Brent, 280l., commuted travelling allowance, 50l., and 6l. (office rent).

Division of Port Elizabeth.

(New Brighton Location).

A.R.M., A. E. Gilfillan, 350l. and quarters.
Clerk, W. S. Wauchope, 72l., allowance 24l. as Postmaster.
Senior Inspector of Native Reserve Location, C. C. Stubbs, 200l. and quarters.
Visiting Medical Officer, Dr. R. J. T. Wright, 150l. per annum.

Division of Queenstown.

Inspectors of Native Locations, W. C. P. Jones, 305l., commuted travelling allowance, 50l., house 25l.; H. B. B. Roberts, 225l., commuted travelling allowance, 50l.

Division of Victoria East.

Inspector of Native Locations, J. B. Liefeldt, 355l., commuted travelling allowance, 50l.

Division of Wodehouse (Indwe).

Inspector of Native Locations, W. H. M. Nicholls, 200l., and commuted travelling allowance, 50l.

Bechuanaland.

Inspector of Native Locations, Vryburg, T. Dent, 375l., and commuted travelling allowance, 50l.
Inspector of Native Locations, Kuruman, J. P. McCarthy, 250l., and commuted travelling allowance, 50l.
Inspector of Native Locations, Tsung, C. J. Dovey, 300l., commuted travelling allowance, 50l., and quarters.
Inspector of Native Locations, Mafeking, C. S. Pringle, 250l., commuted travelling allowance, 50l., 12l. per annum office rent.

Tembuland, &c.

Chief Magistrate, Transkeian Territories, A.H.B. Stanford, 800l. and quarters.
Asst. Chief Magistrate, Transkeian Territories, W. T. Brownlee. Draws salary as R.M.
Chief Clerk, W. Carmichael, 300l.
Clerks, B. Henkel, 240l.; S. D. A. P. Garner, 220l.
R.M., Umtata, W. T. Brownlee, 700l. and quarters.
Clerk and Assistant R.M., J. R. Quinn, 400l.
Clerks, Capt. G. D. Ward, 280l.; R. Welsh 260l.; P. H. B. Payn, 180l.
R.M., Engcobo, T. W. C. Norton, 575l. and quarters.
Clerks, H. G. Rogers, 195l.; E. F. Owen, 165l.
R.M., Elliot, J. T. A. Verschuur, 450l., and quarters.
Clerk, J. S. Le Roux, 280l.
Assistant Clerk and Interpreter, J. van E. Barry, 150l.
R.M., Mqanduli, H. H. Bunn, 600l., and quarters.
Clerks, W. H. P. Freemantle, 240l.; R. Meaker, 120l.
R.M., Elliotdale (Bomvamaland), C. A. King, 550l., and quarters.
Clerks, D. J. McIntyre, 240l.; E. W. Wilkins, 200l. (on leave).
R.M., Xalanga, F. C. E. Bell, 650l.
Clerk, G. E. L. Palmer, 400l.
R.M., St. Mark's, Capt. E. J. Whindus, 650l., and quarters.
Clerk, H. D. Lloyd, 260l.

Transkei.
R.M., Ngamakwe, F. W. B. Gilfillan, 450l., and quarters.
Clerk and Assistant R.M., R. J. Macleod, 300l.
Clerks, M. J. Bradfield, 180l.; N. W. Pringle, 150l.
R.M., Thomo, L. F. E. Farrant, 550l., and quarters.
Clerks, L. C. Pinkerton, 220l.; E. K. Tanner, 120l.
R.M., Kentani, N. O. Thompson, 650l., and quarters.
Clerk and Assistant R.M., P. S. Laney, 500l.
Clerk, J. N. Froneman, 260l.
R.M., Willowvale, M. W. Liefeldt, 750l., and quarters.
Clerks, F. N. Doran, 280l.; R. S. Dalgety, 135l.
R.M., Butterworth, C. J. Warner, 600l., and quarters.
Clerks, E. J. Hargreaves, 400l.; J. E. B. Walker, 300l.; and F. L. Osman, 135l.
R.M., Idutywa, J. P. Cunning, 600l., and quarters.
Clerks and Assistant R.M., D. S. Campbell, 300l.; and G. I. Kenyon, 165l.

Pondoland East and West.
R.M., Lusikisiki, T. C. A. Rein, 650l., and quarters.
Clerk and Assistant R.M., H. E. F. White, 300l.
Clerk, J. R. Coulter, 165l.
R.M., Klopsteg, J. M. Young, 450l., and quarters.
Clerk, T. H. Vlok, 220l.
R.M., Talankulu, J. F. C. Rein, 550l., and quarters.
Clerk, H. C. S. Garner, 300l.
R.M., Bizana, J. C. Hargreaves, 500l., and quarters.
Clerk, D. F. du Toit, 260l.
R.M., Port St. John's, F. E. H. Guthrie, 500l., and quarters.
Clerk, C. A. Budd, 240l.
R.M., Ngqeteli, J. W. Morris, 650l., and quarters.
Clerks, R. C. E. Klette, 240l.; O. J. Clark, 150l.
R.M., Libode, W. T. Hargreaves, 500l., and quarters.
Clerk, W. F. C. Trollip, 300l.

Griqualand East.
Assistant Chief Magistrate and R.M., Kokstad, R. W. Stanford, 850l., and quarters.
Clerk and Assistant R.M., R. H. Wilson, 325l., and quarters; H. H. Catherine, 240l.; M. H. Barlow, 180l.
R.M., Umzimkulu, O. M. Blakeway, 450l., house allowance, 50l.
Clerk and Assistant R.M., D. F. de Souza, 280l.
Clerk, H. E. Bunn, 180l.
R.M., Mutatiele, J. H. Roose, 500l., and quarters.
Clerks, J. J. de Witt, 240l.; J. H. Widdicombe, 180l.
R.M., Mount Freere, W. P. Leary, 650l., and quarters.
Clerk, G. Jeffrey, 325l.
2nd Clerk, C. S. Eckard, 180l.
R.M., Mount Ayliff, A. S. Leary, 500l., and quarters.
Clerk, H. G. Scott, 220l.
R.M., Qumbu, W. J. Vlok, 450l., and quarters.
Clerk, W. C. H. B. Garner, 280l.
2nd Clerk, A. G. Lyne, 180l.
R.M., Maclear, R. L. Shaw, 500l., and 50l. house.
Clerk, R. C. Heathcote, 280l.
2nd Clerk, A. J. Wüd, 220l.
R.M., Tsolo, J. A. F. Gladwin, 500l., and quarters.
Clerks, F. S. Heaton, 260l.; (vacant).
R.M., Mount Fletcher, F. H. Brownlee, 450l., and quarters.
Clerks, R. D. H. Barry, 400l.; G. C. C. M. Gladwin, 300l.

Colonial Secretary's Office.
Colonial Secretary, Hon. N. F. de Waal, 1,500l.
Under Colonial Secretary and Controller of Printing, Noel Janisch, 1,200l.
Assistant Under Colonial Secretary, H. B. Shawe, 800l.

Administrative and Convict Branch.
Chief Clerk, H. Tucker, 650l.
Parliamentary Clerk (Principal Clerk, Administrative Branch), L. T. Thomas, 500l.
Principal Clerk (Convict Branch), C. de Kock, 400l.
Clerks, K. H. A. Brauer, 300l.; H. E. Brimble, 319l.; S. A. Davies, 260l.; A. M. Daniel, 235l.; H. S. Smith, 340l.;* A. A. Robb, 220l.; V. L. Joslin, 220l.; A. B. Moore, 180l.; J. R. Hartshorne, 240l.; A. B. Gregory, 180l.; F. E. Caufield, 130l.; J. A. de Korte, 180l.; G. C. Page, 150l.; H. F. Penty, 130l.
Lady Typists, Miss A. M. Cosnett, 132l.; Miss Hilgen, 100l.

Accounting Branch.
Accounting Officer, A. A. Beck, 600l.
Accountant, and (acting) Accounting Officer, A. R. E. Nichol, 450l.
Paymaster, F. M. Haybittell, 450l.
Assistant Accountant, J. Job, 350l.
Bookkeeper, A. W. Dockrall, 270l., 48l. as Clerical Assistant at Lock Hospital.
Pay Clerk, J. B. Hateman, 280l.
Clerks, D. G. Roberts, 165l.; H. Pring, 150l., and 24l. per annum examining books, G.S.O.

Local Government and Health Branch.
Medical Officer of Health for the Colony, Dr. A. J. Gregory, 1,200l.
Assistant Medical Officer of Health for the Colony, Dr. J. A. Mitchell, 850l.
Additional Medical Officer in M.O.H. Office, Dr. E. N. Thornton, 650l.

* Mr. Smith draws 50l. per annum Private Secretary's allowance.
Bacteriological Assistant, Dr. G. W. Robertson, 800l.

Relieving Medical Inspector, Dr. J. P. Fenouillet, 650l.

Chief Clerk, W. G. R. Murray, M.A., 600l., 100l. as Secretary, Colonial Medical Council.

Principal Clerk, H. P. Solomon, 345l.

First Clerk to Medical Officer of Health, C. N. Milliard, 300l.

Clerks, J. S. F. Botha, 400l.; 50l. as Assistant Secretary, Colonial Medical Council; G. Chaplin, 375l.; W. W. Elliott, 270l.; M. C. Hansen, 260l.; H. K. Jones, 260l.; J. W. Ord, 260l.; G. A. Chisnall, B.A., 240l.; R. S. Gordon, 240l.; Langham Dale, 225l.; H. C. Bellew, 220l.; J. P. Jackson, 220l.; J. H. A. Basson, 195l.; H. J. Andrews, 180l.; H. W. Wood, 180l.; P. H. Hooquard, 150l.; C. G. Welden, 135l.

Shorthand Writer and Typist, W. B. Hilton, 330l.

Lady Typists, Miss A. H. Oakes, 120l.; Miss E. A. Davidson, 120l.

Immigration Branch.

Immigration Officer, C. W. Cousins, 550l.

Clerks, W. v. R. v. Oudtshoorn, 290l.; H. Beynon, 15s. 4d. per day; J. H. Lyttle, 15s. per day; J. T. Lambley, 250l. per annum, 25l. ration allowance, 48l. quarters, 10l. uniform.; A.E.C.R. Murray, B.A., 230l.

Typist, Miss M. Hartford, 90l.

Statistical Branch.

Registrar-General of Statistics, A. J. Brinton, 550l.

Clerks, A. F. F. Scharffenorth, 305l., and 5l. per month as Clerk in Charge of Records; C. W. Smit, 300l.; W. Titterton, 300l.; R. A. Andrews, 220l.; F. H. van Reenen, 220l.; J. H. Alexander, 200l.; P. J. Orlandini, 195l.; P. J. Phelan, 145l.

Births and Deaths Registration Office.

(Cape Division.)

Deputy Registrar, W. Morgan, 330l.

Assistant Deputy Registrars, W. T. Birch, M.A., 270l.; R. G. Rainier, 205l.

General Inspectorate.

Inspector of Prisons, Frank Dreyer, 800l.

Deputy Inspector of Prisons, R. J. Gill, 500l.

Inspector of Books and Accounts, P. J. Truter, 650l.

Staff Clerk, T. Hogan, 435l.

Inspector of Police and Gaol Stores, J. Veitch, 270l.

Assistant to Inspector of Police and Gaol Stores, L. A. Hardy, 200l.

Miscellaneous.

Keeper of Archives, H. C. V. Leibbrandt, 650l.

Storekeeper in Charge of Records, W. P. Coetzee, 210l.; 18l. as Storekeeper.

Chief Government Inspector of Explosives, J. E. Foakes, 1,200l.

Assistant Government Inspector of Explosives, W. B. Jackson, 250l.

Head Messenger, H. Jackson, 240l.

Stationery Branch (Administrative).

Controller of Stationery and Printing, Noel Janisch (Under Colonial Secretary).

Assistant Controller of Stationery and Printing, C. J. Fawcett, 625l.

Clerks, C. H. Phillips, 285l.; S. T. Backwell, 220l.

Stationery Branch (Executive).

Bookkeeper, De C. W. Honeybourne, 320l.

Storekeeper and Stationer, H. A. Allen, 300l.

Assistant Storekeeper, F. A. Burgess, 200l.

Senior Assistant, G. H. Hoets, 295l.

Defence and Police Branch.

Chief Clerk, E. Brande, 550l.

Clerks, A. d'A. Borcherda, 295l.; F. H. Fryman, 280l.; P. Kennelly, 280l.; E. J. Pett, 135l.

Clerk (Peace Preservation Act), J. H. Holland, 250l.

Lady Typist, Miss W. E. Barlow, 120l.

Cape Colonial Forces.

Headquarters, King William's Town.

Commandant-General, Col. H. T. Lukin, C.M.G., D.S.O., 250l.

Staff Officer and Senior S.O. Volunteers, Lt.-Col. L. J. Shadwell, 750l.

Paymaster, C.M.R., Capt. H. H. Gordon, 500l.

Adjutant, Cape Garrison Artillery, Capt. J. C. Hanna, 700l.

Chief Ordnance Officer, Lt.-Col. S. R. Style, 600l., and quarters.

Commandant-General's Staff, King William's Town.

Staff Officer, Capt. J. J. Collyer, 600l.

Chief Clerk, B. M. Bell, 500l.

Clerks, C. S. Coppen, 285l.; W. A. Chippendall, 274l.; L. F. Whitten, 250l.

Volunteer Branch, King William's Town.

Chief Clerk, W. J. Bolton, 500l.

Clerks, L. A. Burnell, 425l.; G. T. Hodge, 200l.; F. W. Hendrickse, 200l.; H. W. Camp, 180l.; L. M. Evatt, 84l.; Alec Paterson, 60l.

Government Medical Establishments.

Old Somerset Hospital.

Surgeon in Charge, J. H. Cox, 300l., includes house 100l., rations 75l.

Clerk, W. J. Milne, 12s. 6d. per diem, 10l. uniform.

Stores Issuer, J. H. Muskett, 185l., rations 25l., quarters 25l.

Clerk, L. C. Selk, 120l., rations 25l.

Robben Island Asylum for Lepers, Lunatics, &c.

Commissioner, G. E. Syme, 600l., quarters and eight rations.

Senior Medical Officer, E. F. W. Moon, 600l., quarters and four rations.

Assistant Medical Officer, Dr. C. M. Patterson, 250l., quarters and two rations.

2nd Assistant Medical Officer, Chaplain, Church of England, C. Engleheart, 100l., quarters, one ration and 3s. 4d. per diem as Lepre Reader, and 12l. per annnum Lepre Teacher.

* Also 24l. per annum, assisting Immigration Officer.
Chaplain, Church of Rome, W. Leeson, 75l.
Chaplain, Dutch Reformed Church,
Chief Clerk and Accountant, and Superintendent of Convicts, F. A. Smithers, 300l., quarters and three rations.
Clerk of Asylums, J. T. Taylor, 280l., rations and quarters, and 5s. per month for taking Meteorological Observations.
Clerks, C. A. M. de Vos, 300l.; H. W. Jay, 270l.; M. Harold, 255l.; E. G. de Villiers, 220l.
Clerk of Works, R. Dannott, 350l., rations and quarters.
Storekeeper, J. Howes, 178l., rations and quarters.

Lunatic Asylum, &c., Grahamstown.
Medical Superintendent, T. D. Greenlees, 825l., 100l. rations, and quarters.
Clerk and Storekeeper, A. Hobley, 225l., rations 75l., and quarters.
Assistant Medical Officer, A. S. Chambers, 350l., rations and quarters.
Assistant Clerk, A. J. White, 185l., rations 50l., 10s. per month as Organist.
Medical Superintendent, Chronic Sick Wards, J. E. Fitzgerald, 200l. and fees, 25l. rations.
Superintendent, Chronic Sick Hospital, C. S. Webb, 290l., two rations and quarters.

Lunatic Asylum, Port Alfred.
Medical Superintendent, W. H. Atherton, 550l., quarters 96l., rations 100l.
Clerk and Storekeeper, E. Jordan, 250l., and 75l. in lieu of rations and quarters.
Issuer of Stores, R. S. Jordan, 5s. per diem, 25l. per annum ration allowance, quarters 12l. per annum.
C.E. Chaplain, Rev. H. L. G. Edwards, 25l.
Wes. Rev. W. H. W. Ellison, 25l.

Valkenburg Asylum.
Medical Superintendent and Inspector of Lunatic Asylums, W. J. Dodds, 900l., rations 100l., and quarters.
Assistant Medical Officers, R. S. Black, 350l., quarters 104l., rations 50l.; J. A. Gibb, 250l., board, lodging and washing.
Clerk and Storekeeper, E. J. Rigg, 235l. per annum, Luncheon 12l. per annum.

Fort Beaufort Asylum.
Medical Superintendent, Dr. J. Conry, 500l., rations 75l., and quarters.
Clerk and Storekeeper, F. C. L. Vogts, 380l. and quarters.
Assistant Clerk, L. R. Vogts, 120l. and 25l. ration allowance, house allowance, 25l.
Issuer of Stores, A. Henry, 145l., quarters 24l., and rations 25l.

Empanyana Asylum.
Medical Officer in Charge, Dr. C. G. Cassidy, 450l., quarters and three rations.
Dispenser and Clerk of Asylums, J. F. Hampson, 213l., quarters and two rations, and 12l. for keeping Leprosy Registers, 25l. as Clinical Assistant.
Clerk and Storekeeper, G. M. Thompson, 275l., and 12l. as Supt. of Bakery.

Tokai Convict Station.
Superintendent, H. M. E. Orpen, 550l., 100l. per annum for supervising building operations, and quarters.
Assistant Superintendent, N. H. M. Cole, 550l., quarters, rations 40l.
Visiting Magistrate, G. B. Williams, 50l., forage allowance 55l.; 20l. Porter Reformatory.
Medical Officer, B. G. Roscoe, 18s. 3d. per diem, and 2s. 8d. per diem for Porter Reformatory, rations, 40l. as Medical Officer.
Visiting Chaplain, Rev. J. P. de Villeers, 50l., and 25l. for Porter Reformatory.
Visiting Chaplain Porter Reformatory, Rev. G. J. Willemse, 84l.
Paymaster and Accountant, J. C. J. Knobel, 224l., rations and quarters 60l.

Convict Station, Breakwater.
Superintendent, G. C. S. Foster, 750l., quarters and rations, 75l. allowance.
Acting Chief Clerk and Accountant, C. W. Felling, 295l., and 25l. in lieu of rations, quarters.
Storekeeper and Deputy Assistant Superintendent,
Clerk, J. Liddy, 220l.
Visiting Medical Officer, H. A. Engelbach, 400l., 100l. M.I. Lock Hospital; cab allowance 40l., and 200l. from Law Department for visiting Police Stations.
Visiting Chaplain, English, T. Browning, 125l.
R.C., M. Colgan, 30l.
D.R., Rev. J. Vlok, 125l. per annum, and 25l. transport.
Assistant Storekeeper, J. F. S. Slate, 225l., and 24l. house allowance.
Visiting Magistrate, C. W. Broers, 75l., cab 25l.
Stores Issuer, C. Kock, 154l. per annum, quarters 30l. per annum, fuel 2l. 10s. per annum.
Assistant Stores Issuer, C. Clements, 140l., as Clinical Assistant 46l.

Sharks' River.
Acting Superintendent, T. Miles, 100l. allowance.
Visiting Magistrate, Charles Bell, 50l.
Chaplain, P. R. Mollett, 50l.

Kluitjie's Kraal.
Superintendent, J. C. van der Byl, 102l., and two rations and quarters.
Visiting Magistrate, W. Hare, 40s. per visit; special visits, 40s. each.
Visiting Surgeon, H. P. Payne, 50l.; special visits, 2l. 2s. each.
Visiting Chaplain, Rev. A. Jeffreys, 36l.

East London.
Acting Superintendent, A. de Villiers, 425l., quarters and 40l. rations.
Visiting Magistrate, R. B. Howe, 36l.
Chaplain, Rev. A. L. Wright, 50l.
Chief Clerk and Accountant, H. Bently, 182l., 4l. clerical quarters and rations.

CAPE MOUNTED RIFLEMEN.
Headquarters, Umtata.
Colonel, H. T. Lukin, C.M.G., D.S.O., 1,000l.
Lieut.-Colonel, R. C. Grant, D.S.O., 700l.
Ditto.
Majors, W. H. B. Phillips, 450l.; J. F. Purcell, D.S.O., 25s. per diem, 2s. 6d. per diem contingent allowance.
Captains, R. N. Cumming, 25s. per diem; G. Curtis, 23s. per diem, 2s. 6d. per diem contingent allowance; J. E. G. Roy, D.S.O. (Gunnery Instructor), 400l. per annum, 5s. per diem allowance; J. M. Grant, 20s., and 2s. 6d. contingent allowance; A. S. Boardman, 20s. and 2s. 6d. contingent allowance; Captain E. J. Welby, 20s. per diem.

Lieutenants (21), 15s. to 17s. 6d. per diem.

Lt.-Col., G. H. Knapp, 700l., P.M.O.

Lieutenant and Adjutant, W. J. G. Norris, 15s., and Adjutant's allowance, 2s. 6d. per diem.

Veterinary Surgeon, Hon. Captain J. A. Worsley, 456l.

CAPE MOUNTED POLICE.

Commissioner, Colonel M. B. Robinson, C.M.G., 1,100l.

Administrative Branch.

Paymaster, J. B. de Kock, 450l.

Chief Clerk, R. R. Swan, 360l.

Quartermaster, D. Herschell, 260l. and 40l. allowance, i.e., Stores.

Assistant Paymaster, L. Gane, B.A., 235l.

Executive Branch.

District Inspectors, F. A. H. Elliott, 700l.; A. E. F. Kropp, 600l.; J. N. Neylan, 600l.; C. T. Rayner, 550l.

Inspectors (18), 350l. to 500l.

Sub-Inspectors (53), 275l. to 325l.

MINISTERIAL DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURER.

Treasury.

Treasurer, The Hon. J. X. Merriman, 1,500l.

Assistant Treasurer, Accountant - General, Receiver-General and Paymaster-General of the Colony, W. A. Collard, 1,100l.

Chief Clerk and Private Secretary, A. H. Day, 600l., and 50l. allowance as Private Secretary.

Principal Clerk, H. T. Pierson, 575l.

Accounting Officer, P. Rainier, 500l.

Assistant Accountants, G. J. Beyers, 500l.; W. H. Friedrichs, 400l.; G. F. Hausmann, 425l.

First Class Clerks, A. E. du Toit, 350l.; W. A. Krige, 330l.

Second Class Clerks, R. van Renen, 280l.; I. W. Binckes, 276l.; N. C. Leith, 240l.; A. L. Waldron, 240l.; J. O. S. Bate, 240l.; E. T. Kilpin, 200l.; D. Macalulfe, 200l.

Third Class Clerks, J. R. E. Chalker, 180l.; P. J. Truter, 180l.; R. T. Faure, 180l.; M. F. Hogan, 180l.; R. W. Wilson, B.A., 180l.; F. S. Herring, 165l.; J. W. Herbert, 165l.; G. D. During, 165l.; H. M. B. Edye, 165l.; J. P. During, 135l.; C. T. Tunbridge, 135l.; P. H. Allport, 135l.; Eric Smith, 4s. 7d. per day.

Typists, Miss W. M. Solomon, 132l.; Miss F. T. Lee, 112l.; Miss A. E. Welshie, 100l.

Government Actuary, J. McGowan, B.A., F.I.A., 900l.

Chief Distributor of Stamps, A. H. Stubbs, 525l.

First Class Clerk, J. B. Long, 325l.

Head Messenger, F. Miller, 280l.

Messengers, E. Nichols, 190l., and 50l. stamping allowance; J. J. Binedell, 135l., and 25l. stamping allowance; G. Thomas, 70l.; E. Footman, 60l.; P. Miller, 48l.

Labourer, W. Lotta, 105l. 12s.

Agricultural Co-operation.

Superintendent Agricultural Co-operation, P. J. Hannon, 1,200l. per annum.

Officer in Charge of Advances to Farmers, P. Davidson, 550l.

Shorthand Clerk and Typist, E. C. James, 250l.

Clerk, S. P. Blackmore, 220l.

Temporary Clerk, A. L. W. Hofweys, 15l. per month.

Income Tax Branch.

Commissioner of Taxes, J. B. Moffat, 1,000l.

Deputy Commissioner of Taxes, E. H. Bisset, B.A., LL.B., 650l.

Chief Clerk, H. M. D. Hutchinson, 400l.

Clerks, S. E. Horwood, 300l.; W. L. du Plessis, 165l.; A. D. Wiggett, 165l.

Temporary Clerks, T. Walkden, 10s. per diem; A. W. Thomson, 10s. per diem.

Shorthand Writers and Typists, Miss G. D. Parminter, 132l.; Miss J. Hepburn, 132l.; Miss G. Becker, 132l.

Messenger, F. Twynam, 5l. 10s. per month.

Excise Branch.

Controller of Excise, L. B. Smuts, 800l.

Inspector of Excise, E. A. Thomas, 625l.

Accountant, O. Thiel, 350l.

1st Class Clerk, H. H. Short, 375l.

Chief Ledger Clerk, T. R. Dummer, 260l.

Shorthand Writer and Typist, J. C. Stewart, 180l.

Clerks, C. J. Phelan, 155l. and special allowance 20l.; W. C. O'B. Hishon, 155l. and special allowance 20l.; C. Chambers, 155l.; H. V. Adams, 186l.; H. Green, 180l.; A. G. Milne, 165l.; W. Tonkin, 145l.; F. Hall, 135l.; C. W. Marquard, 120l.; J. McCahon, 120l.; J. A. Kuys, 120l.

Temporary Clerk, L. B. Walker, 150l.

Boy Clerks, G. K. Taylor, 96l.; W. C. Hall, 96l.; R. Coates, 84l.; A. Reynell, 84l.

Senior Excise Officers, D. F. Martin, 380l. and allowance 50l.; R. M. Orpen, 370l. and allowance 50l.

Excise Officers, O. Eldson, 205l.; J. T. Murtagh, 205l.; H. Skinner, 190l.; A. F. Shaw, 180l.; W. H. Baker, 180l.; A. F. Furniss, 175l.; J. Murray, 175l.; T. W. Chapman, 145l.; J. McLennan, 145l.; W. Readman, 140l.; J. S. Pring, 135l.; S. V. N. Brown, 132l.; T. S. Tilney, 120l.; W. A. Sholtz, 120l.

Messengers, H. M. Whitley, 150l.; A. Boyd, 60l.

Country Stations.

Excise Officers:

East London, W. E. T. Walters, 300l., travelling allowance 60l.

Kimberley, W. Broadhurst, 205l., local allowance, 50l.; and C. W. May, 105l., local allowance, 36l.

King Williamstown, I. W. O. Jones, 175l., temporary promotion allowance, 25l.

Oudtshoorn, M. A. H. Moyle, 155l., allowance 30l.

Paarl, B. M. Wiggett, 280l., travelling allowance 15l.

Port Elizabeth, A. R. Sale, 168l., special allowance, 40l.; and C. O. Murray, 150l., temporary allowance 25l.

Queenstown, W. Harding, 230l.; J. H. Green, 150l.

Worcester, F. A. Eksteen, 300l., transport allowance, 6l.; P. R. Williams, 150l., allowance 15l.

Messenger, H. Jansen, 11l. 10s. per month.
Agent-General's Department in London.

Agent-General, Sir Somerset R. French, K.C.M.G., 2,000l.
Private Secretary, B. A. Baggs, 100l.
Secretary, T. S. Nightingale, 800l.
Chief Clerk, R. Graham, 300l.
Clerks, H. Erskine, 350l.; A. L. Albrecht, 180l.; T. E. Hellier, 125l.
Clerk and Typist, M. Taylor, 180l.
Clerk and Office-Keeper, J. H. Gabillet, 135l., and Quarters 22l. 10s.
Assistant Clerk and Office-Keeper, W. Franklin, 80l.
Accountant, S. J. T. Platts, 350l.
Shorthand and Record Clerk, J. Stephens, 300l.
Clerks, C. B. T. Bowyer, 275l.; H. H. Tufnell, 180l.; J. P. Horn, 120l.; C. W. F. Heady, 90l.; E. C. Yates, 75l.; L. W. Taylor, 60l.
Junior Clerk, F. C. Stont, 55l.
Superintendent Stores and Shipping, E. G. Rendell, 700l.
Assistant Superintendent, Stores and Shipping, W. D. Tidd, 400l.
Clerks, E. F. Challenger, 275l.; H. F. G. Sherriff, 200l.; C. H. Gee, 150l.; E. M. P. Bowyer, 135l.; B. P. Smith, 135l.; S. T. Mann, 130l.; G. E. Bance, 130l.; R. W. Windus, 100l.
Junior Clerk, S. Nash, 60l.
Clerk, Shorthand Writer and Typist, F. J. Bond, 50l.
Clerk and Typist, J. Easton, 100l.
Inspector at Stamp Factory, W. H. Standidge, 150l.
Assistant Inspector at Stamp Factory, A. D. Horn, 75l.
Advising Engineer, J. Mitchell, 700l.
Junior Clerk, J. R. Conder, 50l.
Messengers, J. Manvell, 110l., 10s.; H. F. Fuller, 67l., 12s.; C. T. Gadd, 65l.; J. H. Sponheimer, 54l., 12s.; H. F. Simpson, 52l.; G. Hasley, 18s. per week.
Trades Commissioner, C. der Cheappini, 1,000l.
Commercial Agent, L. Atkinson, 500l.
Clerks to Trades Commissioner, F. W. Nevill, 125l.; T. Sedgwick, 120l.; H. Pindar, 15s. per week.

Customs Department.

Administrative Section.

Controller of Customs and Principal Registrar of Shipping and Accounting Officer, A. H. Wilshire, 1,100l., and 100l. Harbour Board Commissioner.
Chief Clerk, G. Owen-Smith, 575l.
Accountant and Book-keeper, H. M. Tritton, 600l.
First Class Clerks, J. H. V. Hoets, 450l.; P. E. Kleu, 320l.; E. A. Commaille, 300l.; D. J. Daly, 328l.
Second Class Clerk, M. C. Backwell, 260l.
Third Class Clerk, G. F. Manley, 180l.
Shorthand Writers and Typists, Miss A. Kotze, 144l.; Miss B. B. Sinkins, 100l.
Examiner of Ships Papers, C. W. McD. Pilkington, 300l.

Executive Section.

Chief Clerk and Warehouse-keeper, J. C. Hoets, 700l.
Principal Customs and Harbour Board Revenue Clerk, I. A. Sampson, 650l.
Second Clerk and Assistant Warehouse-keeper, P. A. Myburgh, 425l.
First Class Clerk, W. T. Anthony, 330l.
Second Class Clerks, B. J. D. Shaw, 280l.; N. H. Giddy, 280l.; A. Brown, 260l.; C. S. Boyes, 240l.; J. A. Smuts, 240l.
Third Class Clerks, L. C. M. Smith, 180l.; J. P. Wolfardt, 180l.; A. T. Hibberd, 165l.; W. P. Ratray, 135l.; T. F. Devine, 120l.

Waterside Branch:

Surveyor of Customs, P. G. M. Borcherda, 680l.
First Class Examining Officers, E. G. Orpen, 450l.; R. M. Brien, 425l.; C. H. McLeod, 330l.; W. G. Glennie, 330l.; P. B. Louw, 320l.; J. W. C. de Smidt, 330l.; A. Zoutendyk, 300l.
Second Class Examining Officers, R. G. Hudson, 280l.; D. G. Barry, 260l.; P. E. Faure, 240l.; G. W. Pilkington, 240l.; H. W. V. Ellis, 240l.; J. Loxton, 220l.
Inspector of Baggage and Examining Officer, P. H. Berrange, 500l.

Port Nolloth.

Sub-Collector and Examining Officer, F. E. L. Harries, 200l. (also R.M.).
Clerk and Examining Officer, G. E. Saunders, 180l.

Mossel Bay.

Collector, Warehouse-keeper, and Examining Officer, W. F. Wright, 650l., and 25l. Harbour Board Commissioner.
Clerk and Examining Officers, R. I. Penny, 302l. 10s., and 75l. Secretary Harbour Board.
Third Class Clerk, P. J. Lewis, 135l.

Knysna.

Officer of Customs (also C.C. and R.M.), C. M. Stevens, 50l. (also Port Officer).
Third Class Clerk and Examining Officer of Customs, H. J. Parsons, 180l.
Officer at Storms River, G. R. Atkinson, 24l.

Plettenberg Bay.

Officer of Customs, W. Jones, 50l. (also Port Officer).

Port Elizabeth.

Collector of Customs and Registrar of Shipping, G. Hawkins, 800l., and 100l. as Harbour Board Commissioner.
Chief Clerk and Warehouse-keeper, R. J. de Korte, 550l.
Second Clerk, and Assistant Warehouse-keeper, C. R. Morris, 360l.
Second Class Clerks, W. Vaughan, 264l.; H. R. Kirby, 250l.; J. D. Heddon, 225l.; J. F. Linstrum, 215l.
Third Class Clerks, H. C. Smith, 180l.; A. E. Smith, 180l.; W. R. Gilbert, 180l.; C. M. Oettle, 180l.; S. J. Jeffreys, 165l.; C. K. Allison, 165l.; C. C. Stewart, 165l.; A. J. Summerton, 135l.

Waterside Branch:

Surveyor of Customs, F. K. Chase, 700l.
First Class Examining Officer, B. V. O'Riley, 400l.; G. J. Kirby, 300l.; A. R. Harper, 300l.; H. J. O'Leary, 320l.
Second Class Examining Officers, K. J. Sinclair, 300l.; J. W. Mullen, 260l.; T. W. C. Moriarty, 272l.; H. M. Rhodes, 220l.
Third Class Examining Officer, C. L. L. Biden, 180l.
Port Alfred.

Sub-Collector and Examining Officer (also R.M.), G. van R. Philpott.

East London.

Collector of Customs and Registrar of Shipping, A. P. Murray, 650l., also 100l. as Harbour Board Commissioner.

Chief Clerk and Warehouse-keeper, H. C. Kolbe, 500l.

Second Clerk and Assistant Warehouse-keeper, A. de R. E. Louw, 340l.

Second Class Clerks, J. W. Clark, 284l.; B. A. Steer, 200l.

Third Class Clerks, D. E. Horwood, 195l.; W. H. A. J. Rein, 150l.; S. W. Taylor, 150l.; C. S. Hatchard, 135l.; M. W. Hill, 135l.

Waterside Branch:

Surveyor of Customs, T. G. H. Orpen, 525l.

First Class Examining Officers, W. G. Griffith, 400l.; W. Jordan, 330l.

Second Class Examining Officers, A. C. Norton, 260l.; R. A. Hendrikz, 240l.; O. G. Griffith, 240l.

Acting Examining Officer, H. Wetzlar, 240l.

St. John's.

Officer in Charge (also R.M. and Port Officer), F. E. H. Guthrie, 75l. (allowance).

Port of Walfish Bay.

Officer in Charge (also R.M.), D. Eadie.

Kimberley.

Officer in Charge (acting), F. J. Percival, 260l., also 50l. local allowance.

Umzimkulu.

Senior Customs Guard, H. G. Crack, 18l.

Simon's Town.

Collector, Warehouse-keeper, and Examining Officer, G. J. Boyes, 50l.

Ports and Harbours.

Table Bay.

Nautical Adviser (acting), Capt. W. Stephen, 200l.

Shipping Master, R. C. Nisbet, 280l.

Port Nolloth.

Port Officer (acting), F. E. L. Harries, 50l.

Simon's Town.

Port Officer and Shipping Master, G. J. Boyes (also Collector of Customs and R.M.).

Mossel Bay.

Harbour Master, Capt. M. G. Grogan, 400l., also 25l. as member of Mossel Bay Harbour Board.

Knysna.

Port Officer and Shipping Master, C. M. Stevens, 50l.

Assistant Wharf Master, H. J. Parsons, 30l.

Plettenberg Bay.

Port Officer, W. Jones, 50l.

Storms River.

Customs and Port Officer, G. R. Atkinson, 12l.

Port Alfred.

Port Officer, G. van R. Philpott.

Port Elizabeth.

Shipping Master, W. L. Dymott, 365l.

East London.

Shipping Master, W. Hildyard, 308l.

Port St. John's.

Port Officer and Harbour Master, F. E. H. Guthrie.

Control and Audit Office.

Controller and Auditor-General, W. E. Gurney, 1,200l.

Assistant Controller and Auditor-General, J. P. Hopkins, 800l.

Inspectors, J. B. Pewtress, 700l.; W. F. L. Beck, 600l., and 50l. re Deputy-Custodian of Stamps; J. S. Stephenson, 550l.; P. Janisch, 525l.; P. E. F. Broers, 500l.; H. A. Spain, 464l.; W. H. Calderwood, 450l.; G. A. Perram, 350l.

Accountant, G. F. W. Batho, 475l.

Assistant Accountant, J. G. Hubball, 365l.

Accounting Officer, W. H. Scott, 425l.

Chief Examiners of Accounts, F. W. M. Nicholson, 500l.; P. G. van Breda, 450l.; G. W. Shaw, 425l.; C. F. Schmidt, 380l.; W. A. Rennie, 415l.; J. A. Ashby, 370l.

Examiners, F. J. Brand, 390l.; H. A. Rainier, 375l.; J. Tennant, 340l.; H. M. Cameron, 325l.; G. W. Morris, 325l.; E. H. W. Muller, B.A., 325l.; C. J. Taylor, 320l.; P. J. van Reenen, 300l.; V. Faure, 300l.; J. B. Short, 290l.; E. F. Symes, 290l.; W. E. May, 290l.; C. W. Marshall, 280l.; A. D. Kuys, 280l.; E. W. Pemberton, 280l.; E. H. Jones, 275l.; A. W. Sole, 260l.; E. N. Simpson, 260l.; W. D. Alston, 260l.; F. G. Meyer, 260l.; J. C. Crockart, 260l.; W. H. Impey, 260l.; A. M. Reid, 250l.; C. A. F. Cairncross, 255l.; J. P. J. Brunt, 251l.; W. J. T. Parker, 250l.; W. T. F. Coates, 240l.; R. B. Sampson, 240l.; T. C. Laxton, 240l.; T. J. Lark, 240l.; R. G. Goldrey, 240l.; D. L. Wahl, 240l.; H. L. Parker, 240l.; R. G. Versfeld, 240l.; H. L. Ziervogel, 240l.; H. G. du Preez, 240l.; H. F. Brink, 235l.; H. B. George, 235l.; D. F. J. Immelman, 220l.; A. Rose-Innes, 220l.; C. W. Murcott, 220l.; E. Whitworth, 220l.; G. A. Moore, 220l.; C. L. E. Dilley, 220l.; W. F. du Toit, 215l.; C. Stegmann, 215l.; J. S. Deas, 210l.; R. J. Yell, 205l.; T. J. H. van der Byl, 200l.; R. F. Marschan, 189l.; W. J. C. R. Miller, 195l.; C. B. Louw, 195l.; R. A. Green, 185l.; A. W. Larkin, 180l.; G. van R. Muller, 180l.; D. H. Steele, 180l.; H. E. Rudd, 180l.; G. W. Lightbouers, 180l.; G. A. Watson, 175l.; H. W. W. Robertson, 165l.; F. A. Friedrichs, 165l.; G. Preston, 165l.; W. E. Carey, 165l.; W. B. Gurney, 150l.; E. Wahl, 150l.; H. W. Mearns, 150l.; D. S. Ross, 150l.; H. H. Venables, 135l.; G. Richmond, 135l.; R. M. Pearce, 135l.; H. B. Ostler, 135l.

Shorthand Writer, Typist, and Record Clerk, I. R. Owens, 250l.

Assistant Record Clerk, J. Thomson, 195l.

Temporary Shorthand Writer and Typist, T O'Brien, 10s. per diem.

Computers, E. R. Riordan, 6s. per diem; B. F. Louw, 6s. per diem.
Temporary Computors, A. E. Scholtz and A. F. E. Carless, 6s. per diem.

Boy Clerks, F. W. Tutton, 5s. 5d. per diem; B. Levy, 4s. 7d. per diem; J. Levy, 3s. 10d. per diem; A. Gilmour, 3s. 10d. per diem.

GENERAL POST OFFICE.

Postmaster-General, W. T. Hoal, 1,300l.
Secretary, J. Wilson, 850l.
Assistant Secretary, H. Twycross, 700l.
Chief Clerk, E. A. Sturman, 625l.

Principal Clerks:

Telegraph Administration Branch, E. A. Sturman, 625l.
General Correspondence Branch, W. H. Tiffany, 900l.
Appointments Branch, T. A. Cockhead, 440l.
Foreign Mails Branch, M. Buxton Forman, 440l.
Provincial Post Offices Branch, J. Inch, 510l.
Inland Mails Branch, R. G. Dexter, 470l.
Accountant, R. Henderson, 650l.
Assistant Accountant, D. Stephen, 600l.
Departmental Auditor and Chief Examiner, J. Fair, 470l.
Cashier, H. F. C. Watermeyer, 470l.
Controller, Savings Bank, J. M. Forbes, 650l.
Assistant Controller, Savings Bank, H. E. Perkins (acting), 450l.
Controller, Money Order Office, J. Naylor, 625l.
Assistant Controller, Money Order Office, J. A. Smith (acting), 450l.
Superintendent, Telegraph Message Branch, A. Mann, 450l.
Controller, Stores Branch, W. P. Herring, 625l.
Chief Engineer and Electrician, J. P. Edwards, 750l.
Chief Clerk, Chief Engineer's Office, A. J. Drakes, 440l.
Chief Technical Officer, B. Bayly, 650l.

Telephone Branch:

Assistant Engineer, W. Standford, 650l.
Chief Clerk, A. Grant (acting), 380l.

Surveyors and District Engineers:

Western District, E. Price, 475l.
Midland, D. Mackintosh, 625l.
Eastern, J. F. Smith, 650l.
Northern, W. Hopkins, 450l.
Transkei, I. B. Hadaway, 450l.

Circulation Branch:

Controller, J. Powell, 600l.
Assistant Controller, C. C. H. Brown, 440l.
Superintendents, F. M. S. Pennell, 360l.; P. Gibson, 360l.

Central Telegraph Office:

Controller, J. Tasker, 675l.
Assistant Controller, A. Tregarthen, 515l.
Superintendents, F. W. Hampson, 460l.; J. H. W. Williams, 420l.

Provincial:

Postmaster, Alvin North, J. Webster, 465l.
Beaconsfield, W. Edwards, 390l.
Beaufort West, J. Montgomery, 465l.
Bedford, M. McIntyre, 340l.
Bulwerstorp, J. Dickinson, 375l.
Calcutta, C. T. Taylor, 375l.
Claremont, J. F. Steven, 390l.
Cookhouse, J. Fernie, 405l.
Craddock, E. Eltringham, 465l.
De Aar, J. Eddy, 365l.
East London, J. H. Waller, 550l.

Postmaster, Fort Beaufort, C. F. Becker, 340l.
George, D. A. McIntyre, 440l.
Graaff Reinet, C. J. B. F. Birkett, 430l.
Grahamstown, J. W. Bradley, 530l.
Kimberley, C. A. Bond, 575l.
King William's Town, H. Cuppelditch, 550l.
Kokstad, R. H. Little, 375l.
Mateking, H. H. Flowers, 360l.
Malmesbury, W. Pritchett, 340l.
Middelburg, R. Wilkinson, 360l.
Mossel Bay, A. S. Pike, 390l.
Nieuwepoort, J. Smith, 360l.
Oudtshoorn, W. Fraser, 405l.
Paarl, J. V. Howat, 350l.
Port Elizabeth, T. Henshall, 600l.
Queenstown, E. Surman, 465l.
Rondebosch, T. White, 360l.
Simonstown, R. H. Wood, 420l.
Stellenbosch, N. V. Pearson, 425l.
Sterkstroom, H. D. Cusens, 340l.
Turkstad, G. H. Williams, 375l.
Uitenhage, H. W. Shackleton, 440l.
Umtata, F. Aspinall, 475l.
Vryburg, G. L. Palphramand, 360l.
Worcester, A. McKenzie, 420l.
Wynberg, E. Jones, 440l.

ATTORNEY-GENERAL'S MINISTERIAL DEPARTMENT.

ATTORNEY-GENERAL'S OFFICE.

Attorney-General, The Hon. H. Burton, 2,000l.
Secretary to the Law Department, Sir J. J. Graham, K.C.M.G., 1,300l.
Assistant Secretary to the Law Department, E. F. Lonsdale, 800l.
Private Secretary to Attorney-General, D. E. McCausland, M.A., 180l., allowance 36l.

Administrative Branch:

Chief Clerk, J. D. Cormack, 650l.
Clerks, F. W. Bult, 300l.; H. J. Malan, B.A., 255l.; allowance 50l.; J. P. Rossouw, 150l.; G. U. Grimbeek, 150l.; F. W. Pope, 135l.; W. I. Deas, 135l.

Criminal and Legal Branch:

Assistant Law Adviser, Howel Jones, K.C., 1,000l.
Additional Legal Advisers, L. G. Nightingale, 750l.; M. O. Evans, 750l.; C. W. H. Lansdown, 600l.
Chief Clerk, P. K. A. de Vos, B.A. (acting), 400l.; allowance 25l.
Clerks, F. W. Hutchinson, M.A., 200l.; E. R. Roper, B.A., 180l.; H. A. Macraith, B.A., 180l.

Divisional Courts Branch:

Clerks, W. T. Griffin, 280l.; J. J. Malherbe, 200l.; T. Le B. Roscoe, B.A., 180l.

Police Branch:

Principal Clerk, M. Garrett, 550l.
Clerks, R. C. Okes, 165l.; J. D. M. Rosenow, B.A., 165l.

Accounting Branch:

Accounting Officer, E. F. Lonsdale.
Accountant, F. H. Joubert, 700l.
Clerks, V. H. T. H. Rudd, 200l.; D. K. Marshall, 200l.
SOLICITOR-GENERAL'S OFFICE, GRAHAMSTOWN.

Solicitor-General, H. Lardner Burke, K.C., 1,000l.
Chief Clerk, A. S. Welsh, B.A. (acting), 240l.
Clerk, J. A. Dickinson, 150l.

CROWN PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE, KIMBERLEY.

Crown Prosecutor, H. T. Tamplin, K.C., 1,000l.
Chief Clerk, C. E. Horne (acting), 235l., allowance 50l.

SUPREME COURT.

Chief Justice, Rt. Hon. Sir J. H. de Villiers, K.C.M.G., 2,750l., and 500l. as President of the Legislative Council.
Puisne Judges, Sir E. J. Buchanan, 2,250l.; C. G. Maasdorp, 2,250l.; P. M. Laurence, 2,250l.; W. M. Hopley, 2,250l.
Secretary to the Chief Justice, C. C. Jarvis, 250l.
Clerk to Judge Buchanan, F. P. C. Clarke, B.A., 200l.
Clerk to Judge Maasdorp, A. Stockenstrom, 200l.
Clerk to Judge Laurence (vacant).
Clerk to Judge Hopley, J. C. Young, 200l.
Registrar, H. R. Dale, 750l.
Assistant Registrar and Taxing Officer, G. D. Rainier, 650l.
Assistant Registrars, A. M. Black, 260l.; C. Currie, 240l.
Clerk, F. C. M. Voigt, B.A., 195l.
Shorthand Writer, F. Midgley, 500l.
Typist and Assistant Shorthand Writer, W. C. Lund, 230l.
Interpreter, W. M. Cellier, 600l.

MASTER'S OFFICE, SUPREME COURT.

Master and Guardian of Orphans, G. A. Reynolds, 1,000l.

Orphan Chamber Branch.

Chief Clerk, J. G. B. Heyneman, 650l.
Clerks, L. E. Weichardt, B.A., 320l.; A. Barnes, 195l.; C. W. R. Minnaar, B.A., 195l.; J. M. Commaillie, 180l.; C. G. Botha, 165l.; S. J. van Schoor, 135l.
Accountant, Guardian Fund, M. L. Neethling (acting), 550l.
Book-keeper, C. T. Knoblauch, 450l.
Clerks, J. P. le R. Esterhuysen, B.A., 260l.; H. O. de Villiers, 165l.; G. Steyn, B.A., 165l.; J. E. S. van Zyl, 150l.; G. T. Walter, 135l.

Insolvency Branch.

Chief Clerk, R. J. Barry, 340l.
Clerks, J. F. Perold, 150l.; J. P. Brink, 150l.

EASTERN DISTRICTS COURT, GRAHAMSTOWN.

Judge President, J. G. Kotze, 2,250l.
Puisne Judges, J. D. Sheil, K.C., 2,000l.; T. L. Graham, K.C., 2,000l.
Clerk to Judge President, L. A. Eddie, 200l.
Clerk to Judge Sheil, C. A. Dulcken, 200l.
Clerk to Judge Graham, G. G. McKerron, M.A., 200l.
Registrar, R. G. Russouw, 300l., allowance, 100l.
Clerk, W. A. Stanton, 195l.
Interpreter (Dutch), H. N. van Aardt (provisionally), 285l.

HIGH COURT OF GRIGUALAND, KIMBERLEY.

Judge President, J. H. Lange, 2,250l.
Clerk to Judge President, R. S. Medford, B.A., 250l.
Registrar and Master, H. F. Ford, 750l.

Assistant Registrar and Interpreter (Dutch), J. H. van Rooyen, 400l., allowance 50l.
Clerks, R. de B. Steyn (acting), 240l., allowance 36l.; F. W. Henley, 150l., allowance, 50l. (on leave); T. Hagan, 135l., allowance 36l.
Interpreter (Native Languages), I. B. M'belle, 375l., allowance 50l.

DEEDS OFFICE.

Registrar of Deeds, W. de N. Lucas, 1,000l.
Assistant Registrar, W. F. Leffler, 650l.
Clerks, C. G. van Renen, 550l.; R. L. Black, 475l.; L. P. Borchers, 320l.; D. Brink, 320l.; A. H. Bain, 300l.; J. H. Versfeld, 300l.; P. V. du Toit, 195l.; C. T. Krummeck, 195l.; T. F. Brincker, B.A., 195l.; E. Banwell, 190l.; T. J. Brand, 180l.; C. W. Stegmann, 180l.; L. F. A. Petersen, 180l.; W. J. Brummer, 165l.; F. Harvey, 165l.; R. M. Rogers, 165l.; C. J. Murray, 165l.; R. A. van der Spuy, 150l.; L. F. Dawson, 135l.; F. P. van Coppenhagen, 135l.; A. C. Broadhead, 135l.
Registry Surveyor and Examiner of Diagrams, W. P. Murray, 750l.
Asst. Registry Surveyors, F. F. Elliott, 500l.; C. McGregor, 400l.
Draughtsman, A. V. Smuts, 7s. 6d. per diem.

HIGH SHERIFF'S OFFICE.

High Sheriff, G. A. Reynolds.
Chief Clerk, J. C. Hinsabeck (acting), 350l.
Clerks, E. F. Oettle, 195l.; E. P. Smith, 135l.

DIVISIONAL COURTS AND OFFICES.

DIVISION OF ABERDEEN.

C.C. and R.M., J. A. Smellekamp, 500l., allowance 50l., and quarters.
Clerk, H. T. Driver, 215l.

DISTRICT OF ADELAIDE.

R.M., C. R. Vaughan, 500l.
Clerk, H. W. S. Baynes, 260l.

DIVISION OF ALBANY.

C.C. and R.M., F. G. C. Graham, 800l., and quarters.
Clerks, H. H. R. Piers, 300l.; C. H. C. van der Spuy, 195l.; J. G. Carter, 180l.; D. L. Smit, 150l.

DIVISION OF ALBERT.

C.C. and R.M., J. B. van Renen, 675l., and quarters.
Clerks, J. A. Rees, 300l.; V. H. C. Dix, 180l.

DIVISION OF ALEXANDRIA.

C.C. and R.M., P. M. Wright, 550l.
Clerks, S. H. Hoal, 350l. (on leave); S. C. Brown, 200l.

DIVISION OF ALIWAL NORTH.

C.C. and R.M., W. G. Bellairs, 650l., allowance 72l., and quarters.
Clerks, J. G. de la B. van Alphen, 340l.; H. L. Corder, 135l. (on leave); J. G. Halifax (acting), 135l.

DIVISION OF BARKLY EAST.

C.C. and R.M., F. Shaw, 500l., allowance, 120l., and quarters.
Clerks, R. Kidman, B.A., 235l.; T. C. Orpen, B.A., 180l.
CAPE OF GOOD HOPE.

DIVISION OF BARKLY WEST.
C.C. and R.M., R. C. Lloyd, 500l., quarters and allowance 200l.
Clerks, L. R. Rawstorne, 320l., allowance 36l.; A. P. S. Campbell, 240l., allowance 50l.; F. St. C. Fearon, B.A., 180l., allowance 50l. (on leave).

DIVISION OF BATHURST.
C.C. and R.M., G. v. R. Philpott, 600l. (Is also Sub-Collector of Customs.)
Clerks, O. J. Real, 195l. (on leave); M. B. Robinson, B.A., 180l.

DIVISION OF BEAUFORT WEST.
C.C. and R.M., E. T. Anderson, 700l. and quarters.
Clerks, A. A. van Breda, 260l.; J. L. Allison, M.A., 180l. (on leave).

DIVISION OF BEDFORD.
C.C. and R.M., J. A. Gibbs, 700l.
Clerk, J. C. Magennis, 280l.

DIVISION OF BREDASDORP.
C.C. and R.M., H. T. L. Maclear, 600l. and quarters.
Clerk, L. H. G. Albertyn, 195l.

DIVISION OF BRITSTOWN.
C.C. and R.M., S. D. Cloete, 500l., and quarters.
Clerk, W. B. Bildulph, 220l.

DIVISION OF CALEDON.
C.C. and R.M., W. C. Scully, 700l., allowances 180l., and quarters.
Clerks, P. E. Kuys, 320l.; F. T. Neale, B.A., 180l.

CALITZIDORP.
Asst. R.M., P. M. van der Spuy, 450l.

DIVISION OF CALVINIA.
C.C. and R.M., A. C. Bain, 750l., allowance 100l.
Clerks, E. H. Catherine, 215l., allowance 25l.; C. G. Hall, 135l., allowance 25l.

CAPE DIVISION.
C.C., G. Piers, 900l.
Clerks, W. J. Te Water, 450l.; C. B. R. Innes, 350l.; E. A. Anthony, 320l.; R. W. Lambert, 195l.; E. G. Davies, 195l.; A. H. T. Muller, M.A. (acting), 195l.; D. H. Hutcheson, 165l.
R.M., J. T. Wyld, 1,100l., allowance 50l.
Asst. R.M.s, C. W. Broers, 600l., allowance 125l.; C. P. de Villiers (acting), 350l., and allowance 100l.; W. D. S. Lotter, 450l.
Clerks, H. M. M. Piers, 500l.; R. H. Chenoweth, 195l.; A. C. G. Lloyd, B.A., 180l.; G. H. Shawe, 165l.; H. L. Hare, 165l.
Interpreter (in foreign languages), H. G. Semadeni, 350l.

DIVISION OF CARNARVON.
C.C. and R.M., C. J. Bam, 550l., allowance 120l., and quarters.
Clerk, C. D. Campbell, 240l., allowance 25l.

DIVISION OF CATHCART.
C.C. and R.M., F. E. Philpott, 700l.
Clerks, E. N. Grayson, M.A., 300l.; C. F. Goad, 135l.

DIVISION OF CERES.
C.C. and R.M., C. A. Horne, 650l.
Clerk, H. Cloete, 340l.

DIVISION OF CLANWILLIAM.
C.C. and R.M., W. N. Kuys, 500l., and quarters.
Clerk, F. R. Barratt (acting), 165l.

DIVISION OF COLESBERG.
C.C. and R.M., G. H. B. Shaw, 600l.
Clerks, W. Harmer, 260l.; F. G. Riordan, 195l.

DIVISION OF CRADOCK.
C.C. and R.M., W. L. Philpott, 700l., quarters, and allowance 50l.
Clerks, W. T. Robertson, 260l.; G. O. Thornton, B.A., 165l.

DE AAR.
Asst. R.M., J. Shand, 450l., and quarters.
Clerk, G. G. Daly, 165l., allowance 25l.

DURBANVILLE.
Asst. R.M., C. G. B. Borcherds, 450l.
Clerk, H. M. Nourse, 180l.

DIVISION OF EAST LONDON.
C.C. and R.M., R. R. B. Howe, 800l., and quarters.
Clerks, W. J. L. McDonald, 340l.; J. M. Carson, 200l.; P. H. Louw, 195l.; E. Bickford, 180l.; A. B. Probert, 180l.; P. D. Theron, 150l.

DIVISION OF FORT BEAUFORT.
C.C. and R.M., R. J. Crozier, 575l., and quarters.
Clerks, D. G. E. Bergh, 300l.

DIVISION OF FRANSBURG.
C.C. and R.M., P. B. Borcherds, 450l., allowance 25l., and quarters.
Clerk, A. T. Schorn, 260l.

GARIES.
Asst. R.M., A. I. G. Muller, 450l., allowance 50l.

DIVISION OF GEORGE.
C.C. and R.M., C. R. Haw, 700l., and allowance 60l. in lieu of quarters.
Clerks, W. A. de Vos, 300l.; B. Pulvermacher, 180l.

DIVISION OF GORDONIA.
C.C. and R.M., D. May, 400l., allowances 215l., and quarters.
Clerks, J. S. Jackson, 240l., allowance 36l.; P. J. Burger, 150l., allowance 36l.

DIVISION OF GRAAFF-REINET.
C.C. and R.M., J. A. S. Hoole, 800l., allowance 90l.
Clerks, H. W. Hermans, 340l.; F. J. van Aardt, 260l.

DIVISION OF HANOVER.
C.C. and R.M., C. H. Hilliard, 600l., and allowance 50l., in lieu of quarters.
Clerk, B. I. Goldschmidt, 220l.

DIVISION OF HAY.
C.C. and R.M., F. B. Gedye, 500l., allowance 50l., and quarters.
Clerks, M. M. Basson, 200l., allowance 36l.; G. S. Malan, 135l., allowance 36l.
CAPE OF GOOD HOPE.

DIVISION OF HERBERT.
C.C. and R.M., H. H. Roberts, 500l., allowance 105l., and quarters.
Clerks, J. M. B. Brand, 240l., allowance 50l.; L. Ward, B.A., 180l., allowance 36l.

HOPEFIELD.
Asst. R.M., P. G. Fischer, 400l., and quarters.

DIVISION OF HOPE TOWN.
C.C. and R.M., J. A. v. S. d'Oliveria, 450l., allowance 50l., and quarters.
Clerk, H. W. Whitehorn, 240l.

DIVISION OF HUMANSDORP.
C. C. and R.M., H. E. Marshall, 650l., allowance 50l.
Clerk, C. E. Stidolph (acting), 300l., allowance 75l.

INDWE.
Asst. R.M., H. F. J. Borchers, 500l.
Clerk, H. G. Rawlinson, B.A., 180l.

DIVISION OF JANSENVILLE.
C.C. and R.M., D. D. Leslie, 550l.
Clerk, A. B. Pugh, 195l.

KEISKAMA HOEK.
Asst. R.M., J. M. Richards, 400l., and quarters.

DIVISION OF KENHARDT.
C.C. and R.M., J. Drysdale, 450l., allowance 50l., and quarters.
Clerks, J. W. White, 240l., allowance 36l. (on leave); L. S. Knox-Davies (acting), 200l., allowance 36l.; T. M. Chisnall, 150l., allowance 36l.

DIVISION OF KIMBERLEY.
C.C. and Registrar of Deeds, J. J. Christie, 1,000l., and quarters.
Clerks, T. W. Harker, 650l., allowance 50l.; B. Shaw, 320l., allowance 36l.; R. W. Wamsley, 180l., allowance 50l.; J. S. W. Lambert, 180l., allowance 36l.; C. F. J. du Toit, 180l., allowance 36l.; A. F. Corbett, B.A., 180l., allowance 36l.
R.M., E. J. Philpott, 900l., allowances 150l.
Clerks, C. J. Schermbucker, 350l., allowance 50l.; A. W. H. R. Preston, 180l., allowance 36l.; R. Ponton, 180l., allowance 50l.; J. H. C. van Breda, 180l., allowance 36l.
Additional R.M., Bonconsfield, V. E. P. Bradshaw, 550l., allowance 50l.
Clerk, B. Muller, 180l., allowance 36l.

DIVISION OF KING WILLIAM'S TOWN.
C.C. and R.M. and Registrar of Deeds, W. B. G. Blenkins, 900l., and quarters.
Clerks, G. W. E. Rein, 500l.; H. W. Drew, 300l.; N. W. Dorlington, 200l.; J. T. Harper, 180l.; H. P. Keevy, 180l.; W. B. T. Walker, 150l.; S. R. Brunette, 150l.; F. Ninow (acting), 135l.

KLIPDAM.
Asst. R.M., P. Wither, 450l., allowance 50l.
Clerk, J. F. Malherbe, 220l., allowance 36l.

DIVISION OF KNYSNA.
C.C. and R.M., C. M. Stevens, 450l., allowances 150l., and quarters.
Clerks, A. G. de Smidt, 240l.; R. B. Horn, 180l.

DIVISION OF KOMGA.
C.C. and R.M., J. H. O'Connell, 600l., and quarters.
Clerk, S. J. Olivier, 260l.

DIVISION OF KURUMAN.
C.C. and R.M., M. J. Lyne, 500l., allowance 100l., and quarters (on leave); P. G. Armstrong, 320l. (acting).
Clerk, J. H. E. Mayne, 280l., allowance 36l.

DIVISION OF LADISMITH.
C.C. and R.M., L. Neethling, 700l.
Clerk, J. R. Cellarius, 260l.

LADY GREY.
Asst. R.M., S. P. Court, 450l.

DIVISION OF LAINGSBURG.
C.C. and R.M., P. F. Aling, 700l.
Clerk, J. Foster, 300l.

DIVISION OF MAPEKING.
C.C. and R.M., E. C. A. Welsh, 500l., allowances 195l., and quarters.
Clerks, P. J. Hugo, 280l., allowance 36l.; C. D. Stanier (acting), 220l., allowance 36l.

DIVISION OF MALMESBURY.
C.C. and R.M., C. J. Sweeney, 800l., and allowance 144l.
Clerks, E. F. B. Schierhout, B.A., 340l.; J. N. Steenkamp, 195l.

MARISBURG.
Asst. R.M., A. J. R. Wilmot, 500l.

DIVISION OF MIDDELBURG.
C.C. and R.M., E. G. Green, 600l., and quarters.
Clerks, D. A. Stewart, 280l.; F. L. Tabor, B.A., 180l.; H. Louw, 135l.

MIDDLEDRIPT.
Asst. R.M., W. T. Welsh, 400l., and allowance 50l.

DIVISION OF MOLTENO.
C.C. and R.M., J. C. P. du Toit, 600l., and quarters.
Clerk, W. B. W. Gunn, 280l.

DIVISION OF MONTAGU.
C.C. and R.M., A. B. van Ryneveld, 650l.
Clerk, M. W. Versfeld, 280l.

DIVISION OF MOSSEL BAY.
C.C. and R.M., R. C. Ferris, 700l., and quarters.
Clerks, J. G. Freislisch, 320l.; S. J. de Vos, 180l.

DIVISION OF MURRAYSBURG.
C.C. and R.M., F. J. Jansen, 450l., allowance 50l., and quarters.
Clerk, J. D. Krige, B.A., 215l.
NAAUWPOORT.

Asst. R.M., O. C. H. Strong, 340l., and allowance 35l.

DIVISION OF NAMAGUALAND.

C.C. and R.M., W. B. Magennis, 500l., allowance 75l., and quarters.
Clerks, F. E. G. Munscheid, 260l., allowance 36l.; C. E. Viljoen, B.A., 180l., allowance 36l.

DIVISION OF OUTDTHOORN.

C.C. and R.M., F. Wrensch, 600l. and quarters.
Clerks, E. J. le Roux, 300l.; A. Z. Auret, 165l.; C. Carstens, 150l.

DIVISION OF THE PAARL.

C.C. and R.M., C. S. Nicholson, 800l., allowance 108l.
Clerks, E. H. van Noorden, 375l.; C. P. Immelman, 300l.; G. F. Bell, 165l.; R. T. Dorrington, 150l.

PEARSTON.

Asst. R.M., J. B. Fraser, 450l.

DIVISION OF PEDDIE.

C.C. and R.M., W. M. Eustace, 550l., and quarters.
Clerk, L. J. Taylor, 240l.

PETBUSVILLE.

Asst. R.M., G. H. Bright, 450l.

DIVISION OF PHILIPSTOWN.

C.C. and R.M., D. C. Giddy, 600l.
Clerk, C. W. Crawford, 195l.

DIVISION OF PIQUETBERG.

C.C. and R.M., C. Kenely, 600l., and quarters.
Clerk, W. P. Rousseau, 280l.

DIVISION OF PORT ELIZABETH.

C.C. and R.M., C. G. H. Bell, C.M.G., 950l., allowance 50l.
Chief Clerk and Asst. R.M., T. B. N. Miles, B.A., 340l.
Clerks, G. H. Milles, B.A., 200l.; C. van Breda, 195l.; W. H. Hare, 165l.; E. R. H. Thornhill, 150l.; W. T. de B. Riordan, 150l.; F. M. Allison, 135l.

DISTRICT OF PORT NOLLOTH.

R.M., F. E. L. Harries, 175l., allowance 125l., and quarters (is also Sub-Collector of Customs, allowance 200l.).
Clerk, G. E. Saunders, 180l., allowance 50l.

DIVISION OF PRIESKA.

C.C. and R.M., J. H. Veale, 500l., and quarters.
Clerks, J. Tudor, 260l., allowance 30l.; C. T. Goldswain (acting), 260l.

DIVISION OF PRINCE ALBERT.

C.C. and R.M., J. Ford, 700l.
Clerk, D. H. Marais, B.A., 215l.

DIVISION OF QUEEN'S TOWN.

C.C. and R.M., L. M. Harison, 750l., allowance 75l., and quarters.
Clerks, N. Lacey, 340l.; C. E. Kidger, 300l.; T. E. Ellson, B.A., 180l.; C. G. Bird, B.A., 165l.

DIVISION OF RICHMOND.

C.C. and R.M., S. Tilney, 550l., and quarters.
Clerk, P. P. D. Jackson, 195l.

REITFONTEIN.

Asst. R.M., J. F. Herbst (acting), 450l., allowance 100l.

DIVISION OF RIVERSDALE.

C.C. and R.M., C. J. Roux, 700l.
Clerks, J. S. de Wet, 300l.; T. Moodie, 195l.

DIVISION OF ROBERTSON.

C.C. and R.M., J. C. Gie, 700l., allowance 50l., and quarters.
Clerks, A. P. G. B. Legg, 340l.; J. D. Preiss, 195l.

DISTRICT OF SIMONTOWN.

R.M., G. J. Boyce, 600l., allowance 135l., and quarters (is also Sub-Collector of Customs).
Clerks, J. G. S. Templeman, 280l.; E. M. Ponton, 180l.

DIVISION OF SOMERSET EAST.

C.C. and R.M., F. E. Wollaston, 800l.
Clerks, C. A. Pentz, 340l.; T. E. C. Hobson, 180l.; B. L. De Fontaine, B.A., 180l.

SOMERSET WEST.

Asst. R.M., F. Howe-Browne, 525l.
Clerk, M. E. Eedes, 220l.

DIVISION OF STELENBOSCH.

C.C. and R.M., H. F. O. Hewett, 750l., and quarters.
Clerks, T. H. Bain, 360l.; A. R. Brand, 300l.

STERKSTROOM.

Asst. R.M., A. C. van Renen, 450l., and quarters.

DIVISION OF STEYNSBURG.

C.C. and R.M., T. J. B. Scotland, 550l.
Clerk, C. R. Norton, 220l.

DIVISION OF STEYTLERVILLE.

C.C. and R.M., F. J. Lawrence (acting), 500l.
Clerk, A. E. Bergh, 240l.

DIVISION OF STOCKENSTROM.

C.C. and R.M., M. H. Woodifield, 500l., and quarters.
Clerks, J. Roos, 300l.; S. C. Chase, 260l. (on leave).

DIVISION OF STUTTERHEIM.

C.C. and R.M., A. W. H. R. Preston, 650l.
Clerk, A. E. Jubil, 280l.

DIVISION OF SUTHERLAND.

C.C. and R.M., J. W. Kuys, 500l., and quarters.
Clerk, H. B. Parsons, 240l.

DIVISION OF SWELLENDAM.

C.C. and R.M., A. F. Robertson, 700l.
Clerk, J. H. Neethling, 340l.

DIVISION OF TARKA.

C.C. and R.M., F. C. Garstin, 700l.
Clerk, G. A. Fehrsen, 300l.
TAUNG.

R.M., F. Kuys, 450l., allowance 75l., and quarters.
Clerk, N. D. Tilney, 195l., allowance 36l.

DIVISION OF TULBAGH.

C.C. and R.M., W. Hare, 650l.
Clerk, A. J. van der Byl, 300l.

DIVISION OF UITENHAGE.

C.C. and R.M., P. Dreyer, 725l., and quarters.
Clerks, J. F. de Wet, 300l.; C. W. Gray, 180l.;
A. Crawford, M.A., 180l.; W. Johnston, 135l.

DIVISION OF UNIONDALE.

C.C. and R.M., J. F. Joubert, 600l., and quarters.
Clerk, E. Tinley, 300l.

DIVISION OF VAN RHYNSDORP.

C.C. and R.M., K. R. Stewart, 500l.
Clerk, W. D. de la B. van Alphen, 260l.

VENTERSTAD.

Asst. R. M., H. E. Corser, 400l., and quarters.

DIVISION OF VICTORIA EAST.

C.C. and R.M., C. R. Chalmers, 600l.
Clerks, E. H. Samuels, 350l.; H. K. Ballot (acting), 180l.

DIVISION OF VICTORIA WEST.

C.C. and R.M., P. A. Garcia, 500l., and quarters.
Clerks, A. C. Versfeld, 240l.; J. D. Rossouw B.A., 165l.

DIVISION OF VRYBURG.

C.C. and R.M., and Registrar of Deeds, F. M. W. Roberts, 600l., allowance 75l., and quarters.
Clerks, C. W. R. Duk, 375l., allowance, 75l.;
H. H. Hudson, 320l., allowance, 75l.; G. D. C. Lumsden, 195l., allowance, 36l.

DISTRICT OF WALFISH BAY.

R.M., D. Eadie, 550l., allowance 100l., and quarters.

WELLINGTON.

Asst. R.M., L. J. W. van der Poel, 500l.
Clerk, D. G. Roux, B.A., 180l.

WILLISTON.

Asst. R.M., G. J. A. Reid, 450l.

DIVISION OF WILLOWMORE.

C.C. and R.M., J. D. Hugo, 550l., and quarters.
Clerk, F. C. W. Coller, 280l.

DIVISION OF WODEHOUSE.

C.C. and R.M., H. E. Gadd, 550l., and quarters.
Clerks, J. W. Mitchell, 300l.; J. H. van der Vyver, 180l.

DISTRICT OF WOODSTOCK.

R.M., H. O. Badnall, 550l.
Asst. R.M., W. A. B. Rowan, 380l.
Clerks, W. G. Hoal, B.A., 165l.; F. Parry, 135l.

DIVISION OF WORCESTER.

C.C. and R.M., J. C. Stapleton, 700l., and quarters.
Clerks, H. A. van Bart, 350l.; J. D. Holtzhausen, 180l.; R. H. Gage, 150l.

DISTRICT OF WINBERG.

R.M., G. B. Williams, 700l., and allowance, 125l.
Clerks, A. J. Waters, B.A., 300l.; J. F. F. Packman, B.A., 235l.; G. G. van Breda, 215l.;
J. S. Bailey, B.Sc., 180l.; B. D. H. Hudson (acting), 165l.; J. F. S. Hawtayne, 120l.

Relieving C.C. and R.M., T. H. Roux, 600l.
Relieving Clerks, M. H. Gie, 350l.; allowance, 75l.; E. C. Middlewick, 340l., allowance, 75l.;
F. de Villiers, 320l., allowance, 75l.; P. G. L. de Beer, 320l., allowance, 75l.; J. G. R. Innes, 300l., allowance, 75l.; C. E. Stidolph, 300l., allowance, 75l.; K. R. Thomas, 280l., allowance, 75l.

Divisional Inspector, A. B. Hofmeyr, 650l.

URBAN POLICE DISTRICT, CAPE TOWN.

Commissioner, R. M. Crawford, 650l.
Chief Clerk and Paymaster, F. W. Metelerkamp, 400l.
Clerks, G. S. Pringle, 260l.; B. F. Marais, 195l.

DETECTIVE DEPARTMENT, KIMBERLEY.

Chief of Detective Department, A. H. Garcia, I.S.O., 1,100l., allowance, 250l.
Chief Clerk, A. E. Catherine (temporarily), 525l., allowance, 36l.
Clerk, J. W. du T. Melville, 150l., allowance, 36l.

DEPARTMENT OF COMMISSIONER OF PUBLIC WORKS.

Headquarter Establishment.

Commissioner, Hon. J. W. Sauer, 1,500l.

Secretariat.

Secretary for Public Works, C. L. W. Mansergh, I.S.O., 1,100l.
Chief Clerk, C. G. Reynolds, 650l.

Engineering Section.

Principal Clerk, W. J. Davidson, 500l.

Architectural Section.

Principal Clerk, W. Morkel, 575l.

General Administrative Section.

Principal Clerk, A. C. Tottle, 550l.
Clerks, R. A. Hemmens, 500l.; J. H. Easton, 450l.; J. S. Backhouse, B.A., 425l.; G. H. Treadwell, 315l.; A. Stegmann, 310l.; T. M. Berrange, 310l., and 100l. allowances as Private Secretary to Commissioner; C. J. du Rand, 300l.; A. B. du Toit, 280l.; B. P. Davies, 275l.; G. H. Herman, 270l.; E. J. Scholtz, 260l.; J. Brink, 260l.; N. G. Ellis, 260l.; W. H. Short, 260l.; F. H. Sargeant, 220l., and 50l. allowance as Assistant to Private Secretary to Commissioner; J. S. Jackson, 215l.; M. W. Thom, 210l.; G. J. D. Liebenberg, 205l.; T. V. Davies, 200l.; C. F. L. van Coppenhagen, 180l.; C. S. Daniel, 165l.; J. R. V. R. Pickard, 165l.; J. Allison, 150l.; P. P. Fourie, 150l.

Accounting Branch.

Chief Accountant and Accounting Officer, Lt.-Col. A. Kitchener, 850l.
Accountant, K. de Kock, 525l.
Assistant Accountant, A. Bell, 400l.
Bookkeepers, W. J. Chadwick, 325l.; W. H. Loubsen, 275l.
Clerks, G. G. F. Young, 300l.; W. E. Milne, 275l.; M. V. D. S. Drever, 215l.; F. W. E. Watts, 205l.; H. E. Owens, 201l.; J. H. Reeler, 180l.

Messengers, etc.

Head Messenger and Office Keeper, J. E. Ryan, 184l. 16s.
Messengers, A. Y. Mathew, 72l.; J. T. W. Paver, 65l. 8s.; W. W. Symons, 42l. 12s.; J. P. Lee, 39l. 12s.

Chief Engineer's Section.

Chief Engineer, W. Craig, A.M.I.C.E., 900l.

Engineering Section.

First Assistant Engineer, W. C. Edwards, A.M.I.C.E., 500l.
Second Assistant Engineer, T. W. W. Perry, A.M.I.Mech.E., 400l.
Fourth Assistant Engineer, H. C. Cooper, 300l.
Technical Clerk and Draughtsman, W. O. Vaughan, 17s. 10d. per diem.
Inspecting Engineer, F. W. Waldron, A.M.I.C.E., 552l.
Assistant Engineer, T. W. Stainthorpe, A.M.I.C.E., F.R.San.Inst., 25s. 7d. per diem.
Draughtsmen, G. C. Smith, 280l.; J. N. Hansen, 14s. per diem; J. Black, 7s. 6d. per diem.

Architectural Section.

Architect, A. G. Howard, M.S.A., 700l.
Second Assistant Architect, F. Quy, M.S.A., 415l.
Clerk of Works, C. F. W. Hougham, 375l.
Chief Draughtsman, W. R. Jaggard, A.R.I.B.A., 425l.
Draughtsmen, M. N. C. Boult, 300l.; G. M. Willis, 9s. 6d. per diem.

Clerical Section.

Principal Clerk, A. S. Weinbecker, 425l.
Clerks, H. W. Ashe, 350l.; H. E. Hemmens, 330l.; A. Stegmann, 295l.; D. E. Goldschmidt, 285l.

Stores Branch.

Storekeeper, V. Fox, 475l.
Bookkeeper, D. Hunt, F.I.A. (Lond.), 300l.
Clerk, M. S. Pickard, 215l.
Issuer of Stores, R. J. Wilson, 273l.
Stores Assistant, W. A. Egan, 235l.

Messengers, etc.

Messenger and Copyist, G. S. H. Wallendorff, 164l. 10s.
Messengers, W. C. Jacobs, 87l.; H. Young, 37l.

Field Establishment.

Division No. 1.—Cape Town.

Divisional Engineer, W. Dickinson, 500l., and 100l. in lieu of quarters.
Clerk and Accountant, J. N. Kemp, 350l., and 59l. in lieu of quarters.
Clerks, N. A. N. Black, 260l.; R. H. Neville, 190l.; R. E. Farr, 165l.
Clerks of Works, J. Keast, 17s. 10d. per diem; F. L. Grace, 17s. 6d. per diem; F. B. Holt, 15s. 4d. per diem; J. C. Radcliffe, 15s. 4d. per diem.
Messenger, J. Essa, 152l. 16s.

Division No. 2.—Worcester.

Divisional Engineer, R. Bromley, A.M.I.C.E., 525l., and 90l. house.
Clerk and Accountant, F. B. Morgenrood, 270l., and 50l. house.
Clerk of Works, W. C. B. de Smidt, 300l., and 50l. local.
Architectural Assistant, H. H. Bridgman, 19s. 2d. per diem.

Division No. 3.—Kimberley.

Divisional Engineer, H. C. Litchfield, A.M.I.C.E., 710l.
Clerk and Accountant, F. G. Mann, 260l., and 50l. local.
Clerk, J. M. G. Newey, 215l., and 50l. local.
Draughtsman and General Assistant, W. W. Parkins, 295l., and 50l. local.

Division No. 4.—Cradock.

Divisional Engineer, B. W. Ritso, M.I.C.E., F.G.S., 600l.
Clerk and Accountant, J. F. Hawtayne, 440l., and 50l. house.
Clerks, P. J. Botha, 240l.; J. G. Marais, 225l.
Typist, J. N. L. Clarke, 177l.
Junior Clerk, J. A. Hattingh, 3s. per diem.
Architectural Assistant and Draughtsman, E. H. Woodcock, A.M.S.A., 370l.

Water Boring Section.

Assistant Inspector, A. Mellish, 400l.

Division No. 5.—King William's Town.

Divisional Engineer, W. L. Trollip, 575l., quarters, and 2s. 6d. per diem forage.
Assistant Divisional Engineer, H. A. Fuhr, A.M.I.C.E., 450l., quarters, and 2s. per diem forage.
Clerk and Accountant, A. Millard, 385l.
Clerks, T. Stewart, 320l.; F. J. van H. D. Denysen, 235l.; J. W. G. Jarvis, 215l.; F. W. Hieber, 160l.
Architectural Assistant, A. J. Foster, 435l.
Engineering Assistant, G. O. Newey, 340l., and 42l. house.
Field Assistants, W. de S. Bain, 317l., and 50l. house, and 3s. per diem forage; C. A. Baillie, 254l., and 2s. 6d. per diem forage, and 2l. per month quarters.

Division No. 6.—Kokstad.

Divisional Engineer, W. von Meyer, 340l., and 28l. forage and 22l. house.
Clerk and Accountant, W. E. J. Elton, 270l.
Clerk, F. L. Wilson, 192l., and 1s. 6d. per diem forage.

Irrigation Department.

Director of Irrigation, F. E. Kanthack, 1,200l.
Clerk to Director, D. W. Manning, 475l.
Clerk, A. C. Milne, 300l.
Assistant Engineers W. A. Legg, M.I.C.E., 900l.; R. W. Newman, 600l.; T. E. Seaife, 425l.; J. Espinasse, 350l.
Draughtsman, G. D. Clarke, 240l.

RAILWAYS.

Chief Offices.—Cape Town.

General Manager, T. S. McEwen, A.M.I.C.E., 2,500l.
Assistant General Manager, A. J. Robb, 1,250l.
Engineer-in-Chief, A. G. Dalton, M.I.C.E., 1,050l., and 200l. construction allowance.
CAPE OF GOOD HOPE.

Assistant Engineer-in-Chief, A. M. Tippett, 900l., and 150l. construction allowance.
Chief Locomotive Superintendent, H. M. Beatty, C.M.G., 1,200l.
Chief Traffic Manager, G. C. S. Clark, C.M.G., 1,050l.
Chief Accountant of Railways, C. G. Goodison, 935l.
Accountant of Railways, T. Ireland, 700l.
Chief Railway Storekeeper, C. Cock, 900l.
Assistant Chief Railway Storekeeper, P. J. Hart, 600l.
Refreshment Rooms Manager, R. A. Simmons, 800l., and 100l. travelling.

Western, South-Western, Midland, Northern and Eastern, and Rhodesia Systems.

Offices.—Cape Town, Beaufort West, Port Elizabeth, Kimberley, East London and Mafeking.

Resident Engineer, Western System, Cape Town, H. H. Elliott, 850l.
Resident Engineer, Midland System, Port Elizabeth, A. D. Tudhope, 700l., and 116l. house.
Resident Engineer, Eastern System, East London, F. L. Rubidge, 650l., quarters, and 50l. special.
Acting Resident Engineer and District Engineer, Rhodesia System, Mafeking, A. H. Wallis, 625l., quarters, and 100l. local.
Locomotive Superintendent, Western System, Salt River, G. McGrath, 770l.
Locomotive Superintendent, Eastern System, East London, W. S. Sim, 750l., and quarters.
Locomotive Superintendent, Midland System, Uitenhage, J. M. Thornton, 850l., and quarters.
Locomotive Superintendent, Rhodesia System, Mafeking, R. J. Hall, 550l., quarters, and 100l. local allowance.
Relieving Locomotive Superintendent, Salt River, H. B. Gemmell, 650l., and 50l. house allowance.
Traffic Manager, Midland System, Port Elizabeth, J. O. Paterson, 950l.
Traffic Manager, Western System, Cape Town, G. T. Dowling, 925l.
Traffic Manager, Eastern System, East London, N. Wilson, 750l., and quarters.
Traffic Manager, South Western System, Beaufort West, J. J. de Bene, 700l., and 116l. 13s. 4d. house.
Traffic Manager, Northern System, Kimberley, W. Stevenson, 700l., quarters, and 15l. local allowance.
Railway, Storekeeper, Western System, Cape Town, P. H. C. Smallman, 460l. and 40l. special.
Railway Storekeeper, Midland System, Port Elizabeth, G. Wilton, 500l., and 40l. special.
Railway Storekeeper, Eastern System, East London, E. Giles, 475l., and 40l. special.

Sleeper Factory.—Knysna.

Acting Superintendent, Knysna, G. R. Atkinson, 192l., and 35l. forage, 48l. house, 24l. Customs and 12l. Port Officer.

MINISTERIAL DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE.

Office of Secretary for Agriculture.

Secretary for Agriculture, Hon. F. S. Malan, 1,500l.
Chief Clerk to Secretary for Agriculture, Barry McMillan (acting), 620l.
Private Secretary, P. J. Truter, 50l. allowance.

Accountant and Accounting Officer, G. W. Caffyn, 500l.
Clerks, F. van Blommestein, 340l.; R. E. C. le Sueur, 245l.; F. J. Street, 165l.
Officer in charge of Trout Hatchery, Jonker's Hoek, J. L. Scott, 11s. 8d. per diem.
Master in charge of Steam Trawler "Pieter Faure," G. H. Cartwright, 25l. per mensem.
Superintendent of Guano Islands, J. Spence, 800l. (acting).
Accountant, W. R. Zeederberg, 430l.
Clerk, H. Jackson, 270l.

Office of Director of Agriculture.

Director of Agriculture, vacant, 1,000l.
Chief Clerk to Director, P. J. du Toit, 500l.
Principal Clerks, G. N. Williams, 450l.; F. W. Green, 430l.
1st Class Clerk, G. Aling, 330l.
2nd Class Clerks, H. L. Shaw, B.A., 280l., allowance of 20l.; Secretary Elsenburg Advisory Board; E. W. Telfer, 260l.; W. A. Kitchener, 215l.; A. B. Brink, 200l.
3rd Class Clerks, A. D. Jones, 180l.; H. C. Miller, 165l.
Clerks on Probation, E. C. Davison, B.A., 165l.; J. E. Harker, 120l.
Temporary Clerks, F. Norgarb, 7s. 6d. per diem, Sundays excluded; J. L. Merrington, 6s. per diem, Sundays excluded; R. G. Dexter, 6s. per diem, Sundays excluded.
Head Messenger, C. V. Maneveld, 200l.
Typists, E. Jenna, 8s. 6d. per diem, Sundays excluded; Miss E. E. Schultz, 7s. 6d. per diem, Sundays excluded; Miss E. Lange, 6s. 6d. per diem, Sundays excluded.

Agricultural Co-operation.

Superintendent, P. J. Hannon, 1,200l.
Assistant, P. Davidson, 550l.
Clerk, S. P. Blackmore, 220l.
Shorthand Writers and Typists, E. C. James, 250l.; A. L. W. Hofmevr, 180l.
Temporary Lady Typist, D. McLeod, 7l. 10s. per month.
Inspecting Engineer, W. H. Smith, 410l.

Veterinary Branch.

Chief Veterinary Surgeon, J. D. Borthwick, M.R.C.V.S., 650l.
Principal Clerk, G. A. Rowe, 300l.
Clerks, G. K. Eksteen, 200l.; I. J. de V. Brunt, 6s. 6d. per diem, Sundays excluded.
Typist, Miss B. Buyskes, 7s. 6d. per diem, Sundays excluded.
Assistant Veterinary Surgeons (16), from 350l. to 500l.
Director, Veterinary Laboratory, Grahamstown, W. Robertson, M.R.C.V.S., 700l. and quarters.
Assistant to Director, C. E. Hulse, 180l.
Chief Inspector of Sheep, A. G. Davison, 700l.
Assistants to Chief Inspector of Sheep (16), from 400l. to 450l.
Sheep Inspectors (219), from 75l. to 350l.
Clerks, A. M. Crosthwaite, B.A., 220l.; A. T. G. Hosking, 220l.; F. G. Stegmann, 220l.; A. Begg, 180l.; J. C. A. Reinecke, 6s. per diem, Sundays excluded.
Registrar of Brands, Barry McMillan, 50l., allowance.
Government Entomologist, C. P. Lounsbury, 840l.
Clerk, P. B. Cloete, 250l.
CAPE OF GOOD HOPE.

Eastern Province Entomologist, W.R. Dewar, 450l.
Assistant Entomologist, R. W. Jack, 250l.
Assistant to Entomologists, C. G. Brink, 60l.
Manager and Experimentalist, Government Wine Farm, T. L. Watermeyer, 300l., quarters and rations.
Clerk, D. G. Paterson, 72l., quarters and rations.
Horticultural Assistant, C. E. Pillans, 750l.
Agricultural Assistant, E. A. Nobbs, Ph.D., B.Sc., F.H.A.S., 600l.
Assistant to Agricultural Assistant, R. W. Thornton, 300l.
Clerk, J. A. Kinlay, 217l. 10s.
Typist, Miss C. Green, 6s. 6d. per diem, Sundays excluded.
Seed Tester, Miss S. Treleaven, 180l.
Dairy Expert, vacant.
Editor of the "Agricultural Journal," F. D. MacDermott, 500l.
Translator and Assistant Editor, J. E. van Minnen, 350l.
Typist, Miss A. M. Difford, 11l. per mensem.
Artist, P. McManus, 300l.

Elsenburg Agricultural College.
Principal, J. Noble Jack, 700l., quarters and rations.
Viticulturist, I. Tribolet, 300l., quarters and rations.
Engineering Instructor, N. W. Chandler, 300l., quarters and rations.
Chemistry and Botany Lecturer, G. N. Blackshaw, 300l., quarters and rations.
Carpentry Instructor, J. Hanson, 190l., quarters and rations.
Assistant Lecturer in Agriculture, J. F. Gatherer, 120l., quarters and rations.
Farm Manager, A. Rae Smith, 250l., quarters and 25l. rations.
Clerk, W. J. Lamont, 150l., quarters and rations.
Matron, Miss Herbert, 100l., quarters and rations.
Visiting Chaplain, Rev. J. Campbell, 60l.

Analytical Branch.
Senior Analyst, C. F. Juritz, M.A., 600l.
Analysts, J. Lewis, M.A., 400l.; St. C. O. Sinclair, M.A., 390l.; J. G. Rose, 375l.; P. O'Brien, B.A., 240l.
Analysts, Grahamstown, J. Muller, B.A., 500l.; E. V. Flack, 250l.

Office of Chief Conservator of Forests.
Chief Conservator of Forests, J. Storr Lister, 705l., 120l. quarters, and 75l. forage.
Principal Clerk, J. G. B. Clayton, 325l.
Assistant Conservator of Forests, Western Conservancy, J. S. Henkel, 400l., 60l. quarters, and 75l. Lecturer at South African School of Forestry.
Clerk and Accountant, W. H. Buckerfield, 330l.
District Forest Officers, W. N. Brown, 360l., forage 60l.; J. van der Byl, 190l.; G. A. Willmot, 180l., forage 50l., and 60l. Assistant Lecturer at School of Forestry.
Conservator of Forests, Midland Conservancy, C. B. McNaughton, 500l., 72l. quarters, and forage 75l.
Clerk and Accountant, H. H. Stroebel, 175l., 25l. quarters.
District Forest Officers, F. T. Tothill, 350l., and forage 75l.; P. J. Dormehl, 275l., 36l. quarters, forage 75l.; L. Ryan, 180l., and forage 75l.; R. J. Wynne, 150l., 20l. quarters.
Conservator of Forests, Eastern Conservancy, A. W. Heywood, 550l., forage 75l.
Clerk and Accountant, M. S. Gurney, 215l., 48l. quarters.
District Forest Officers, P. Harran, 305l., 48l. quarters, forage 75l., field 50l.; J. Sim, 275l., 60l. quarters, forage 75l.; E. Dywer, 305l., forage 75l.; R. Burton, 275l., 30l. quarters, forage 75l.; J. Simmons, 275l., forage 75l.
Assistant Conservator of Forests, Transkeian Conservancy, C. Ross, 350l., 80l. quarters, forage 75l., and local allowance 50l.
Clerk and Accountant, C. T. H. Brain, 180l., 25l. quarters.
District Forest Officers, P. T. Doran, 300l., 75l. quarters, forage 75l.; D. Birrell, 305l., forage, 75l.; J. E. Kaufman, 200l., 25l. quarters, forage 75l.; A. G. Potter, 190l., forage 50l.; A. G. Boocock, 150l., forage 50l.

Surveyor-General's Office.
Surveyor-General, A. H. Cornish Bowden, 900l.
Professional Assistants, M. C. Vos, 650l.; D. A. Brenner, 450l.
Chief Clerk, E. Stapleton, 565l.
Clerks, A. S. Harker, 490l.; C. E. Matthews, 425l.; W. F. Gregory, 420l.; A. J. Begg, 400l.; O. K. A. von Oppell, 365l.; F. L. Scholtz, 319l.; D. E. Buyskes, 300l.; W. P. Pritchard, 300l.; M. G. Athorp, B.A., 300l.; A. H. M. Louw, 270l.; S. L. Taylor Taswell, B.A., 264l.; A. C. Oakes, 260l.; F. J. van H. Duminy, 240l.; H. C. Hooper, 180l.; P. F. Fouche, 180l.; M. du T. van Niekerk, 180l.; A. C. Brink, 150l.; W. E. Ball, 150l.; C. D. Wilson, 135l.; A. E. Manley, 78s. 6d. per diem; J. G. Kristen, 78s. 6d. per diem.
Typists, Miss E. F. Glynn and Miss J. C. le Camp, 78s. 6d. per diem each.
Chief Draughtsman, M. J. Brink, 600l.
Assistant Draughtsmen, H. R. van L. Kuys, 475l.; J. Fleming, 425l.; T. G. Budgen, 300l.; P. A. Brand, 270l.; R. Pritchard, 270l.; J. Souter, 180l.; D. H. Matheson, 160l.; H. D. Warrick, 150l.
Computers, C. R. Alston, 245l.; Miss E. M. Andrews, 150l.
Lithographers, A. I. Bailey, 340l.; F. V. Brigly, 315l.
Geodetic Officers, J. J. Bosman, 900l.; E. W. Andrews, 380l.; Miss L. Stapleton, B.A., 200l.
Head Messenger, T. H. Bassett, 200l.
Assistant Messengers, one at 60l., two at 54l., one at 42l., and one at 36l.

Mines.
Inspector of Mines, Kimberley and Barkly West, Thomas Quentrell, 1,080l., and allowances 240l.
Messenger, 230l., 20l. forage allowance.
Inspector of Claims, Barkly West, H. Rees, 500l., and 120l. forage allowance.
Clerks, T. M. du Toit, 360l.; A. F. Preiss, 150l., and 30l. local allowance.
Mining Constables, one at 200l., and 60l. allowance, and two at 180l., and 60l. forage allowance.
Issuer of Licenses, Millwood, 120l.

Educational Department.
Superintendent-General of Education, Thomas Muir, C.M.G., M.A., LL.D., F.R.S., F.R.S.E., 1,500l.
Secretary, Charles Murray, M.A., 650l.
Clerks, J. D. Coley, B.A., 460l.; T. E. Caulfield, 430l.; F. H. Long, 340l.; T. Hedley, B.A., 330l.; W. L. Johnson, 185l.; C. Kitchin, B.A., 180l.; F. Price, 150l.; F. H. Lee, 135l.; W. Richmond, 60l.

Statistical Branch, Clerks, P. A. Millard, 450l.; S. Robertson, M.A., 250l.; I. P. Caldwell, B.A., 180l.; D. T. Scholtz, 150l.; P. S. Duffett, 120l.

Typists, Miss N. D. Barbour, 150l.; Miss A. Rosenberg, 120l.; Miss M. L. Richmond, 120l.; Miss M. Mitchell, 120l.; Miss G. Millard, 96l.; Miss G. Hepburn, 96l.; Miss W. H. Noyce, 96l.; Miss N. Short, 96l.; Miss M. Bailey, 90l.; N. Ross, 72l.

Authorising Clerks, G. W. Cassé, B.A., 400l.; C. Tregarten, 120l.

Acting Accounting Officer, J. Spyker, 650l.

Accountant, P. E. Scholtz, 325l.

Inspector of School Board Accounts, A. A. Beck, 600l.

Auditors of School Board Accounts, M. C. de Villiers, 200l.; J. F. Williams, 200l.

Examiners of Accounts, A. E. Richmond, 135l.; S. R. Mackie, 120l.; D. M. Coley, 60l.

Examining Branch, J. Rodger, M.A., 425l.

Deputy Inspectors of Schools, E. Noaks, M.A., W. Milne, M.A., F.R.S.E., J. Mitchell, 600l. each; W. A. Russell, M.A., 575l.; D. Craib, M.A., 550l.; G. P. Theron, B.A., 525l.; T. S. Golightly, 525l.; C. E. Z. Watermeyer, B.A. (acting), 500l.; Rev. J. McLaren, M.A. 500l.; J. S. Presly, M.A., 500l.; T. W. Rein, Ph.D., B.A., 500l.; W. G. Bennie, B.A., 500l.; James Craib, M.A., 500l.; J. Robertson, M.A., 500l.; O. J. Satchell, 500l.; E. J. Spurway, B.A., 500l.; J. Young, M.A., 500l.; G. Hagen, B.A., 475l.; Dr. T. Logie, 475l.; J. H. Hofmeyr, M.A., 450l.; W. Freeman, B.A., 450l.; J. G. Tooke, B.A., 450l.; G. C. Grant, 450l.; N. Porter, M.A., 425l.; E. Hobden, 400l.; W. P. Bond, 400l.; A. Bain, M.A., 400l.; G. J. R. Rein, 350l.; all with 36s. per diem travelling expenses.

Royal Observatory.

(Expenses defrayed from Admiralty Chest.)

Latitude, south 33° 56' 3"; longitude, 1h. 13m. 54° 76s. east of Greenwich.

H.M. Astronomer, S. S. Hough, Esq., M.A., F.R.A.S., F.R.S.

Chief Assistant, J. K. E. Halm, Esq., Ph.D.

Assistants, Joseph Lunt, Esq., B.Sc., F.C.S., and R. T. Pett, Esq., W. H. Cox, Esq., and John Power, Esq.

Established Computer (Higher Grade), R. Woodgate, Esq., and six established computers.

Secretary and Librarian, A. Pilling, Esq., B.A.

Ecclesiastical.

Archbishop.

Cape Town, Most Rev. W. W. Jones, D.D.

Bishops.

Grahamstown, Rt. Rev. C. E. Cornish, D.D.

Natal

St. John's

Pretoria

Bloemfontein

Zululand

Mashonaland

St. Helena

Coadjutor Bishop of Cape Town.

Cape Town, W. M. Cameron, D.D.

Deans.

Cape Town, Very Rev. C. W. Barnett-Clarke, M.A.

Grahamstown

Natal

St. John's

Bloemfontein

Archdeacon.

George

Cape

Port Elizabeth

King William's Town

Maritzburg

Durban

Vryheid

Eschoue

St. Mark's

Kokstad

Potchefstrom

Heidelberg

Pretoria

Johannesburg

Basutoland

Bloemfontein

Kimberley

Mashonaland

Matabeleland

Lebombo

Ven. P. P. Fogg, M.A.

R. Brooke, B.A.

(Vacant.)

A. J. Grant.

J. Barker, D.D.

E. A. Hammick, M.A.

C. Johnson.

F. Roach.

E. L. Coakes.

T. Chamberlain, M.A.

A. Roberts.

A. Temple.

H. B. Sidwell, B.A.

M. B. Furse, M.A.

F. R. T. Balfour, M.A.

J. R. Vincent, M.A.

W. H. Weekes, M.A.

J. H. Upcher, M.A.

F. H. Beaven.

G. F. Gillett, M.A.

Roman Catholic Bishop, Cape Town, Most Rev. Dr. Leonard; do. Assistant, Right Rev. Dr. Rooney.

Roman Catholic Bishop of Grahamstown, Rt. Rev. Dr. Macsherry.

Vicar Apostolic, Kimberley, Rt. Rev. Dr. Gaughran.

Vicar Apostolic, Pella, Namaqualand, Rt. Rev. Dr. Simon.

Moderator of the Synod of the Dutch Reformed Church, Rev. J. H. Hofmeyr (Somerset East).

President Wesleyan-Methodist Conference, The Rev. R. F. Hornabrook, Healdtown.

Moderator Presbyterian Assembly, Rev. J. J. McClure, D.D., Cape Town.

President Congregational Union, Rev. G. P. Ferguson, M.A. (Bedford).

President Baptist Union, Rev. J. J. Doke, Grahamstown.

Foreign Consuls.

ARGENTINE REPUBLIC, Cape Town, †Don Francisco P. Nansen; Port Elizabeth, *John Brown; East London, *H. Jungheinrich.

AUSTRIA-HUNGARY, Cape Town, † Herr Otto von Lieder d'Ellevaux; Charles von Remy, Attaché; Port Elizabeth, †J. A. Chabaud.

BELGIUM, Cape Town, †C. H. Knight; Port Elizabeth, *R. H. Lundie; Kimberley, †T. E. Lefevre; East London, †T. Alston.

BRAZIL, Cape Town, *C. H. Poppe.

DENMARK, Cape Town, †Julius Otto Jeppé; Port Elizabeth, *John Anderson; East London, *D. J. Griffiths.

FRANCE, Cape Town, †A. C. Laurent-Cochelet; *Charles Riviere; Simon's Town, †B. H. Hugo; Port Elizabeth, †E. M. Searle; East London, †John Carrington.

* Vice-Consul, †Consul-General, ‡Consular Agent.
The climate for a tropical country is comparatively healthy; the heat in the plains, which is nearly the same throughout the year, being much less oppressive than in Hindustan. Along the coast the annual mean temperature is about 80° Fahr.; at Kandy, 1,665 feet above sea level, it is 76° (average of ten years); at Colombo the annual variation is from 76° to 86°; at Galle 70° to 90°, and at Trincomalee 74° to 91°. In the mountain ranges there is of course a great variety of climate, the thermometer at the hill station, Nuwara Eliya, which is some 6,000 feet above the level of the sea, falling at night as low as 32°. The annual mean rainfall is about 87-83 inches, the rainy season extending from April to June and from September to November, but there is hardly a month without some rain, and the result is the luxuriant vegetation for which the island is famous.

History.

The authentic history of the island begins at the fifth century B.C., when an Aryan invasion from the Valley of the Ganges established the Sinhalese dynasty. Buddhism was introduced in the third century B.C., and from that time this faith has been preserved in comparative purity, exempt from the Hindu persecutions which drove it from India. The island abounds in interesting relics of antiquity, and in rock inscriptions, which, with the written annals left by the Sinhalese kings, are of peculiar value in revising Indian chronology.

Ceylon was visited in early days by the Greeks, Romans, and Venetians; in 1505 the Portuguese formed settlements on the west and south of the island; in the next century they were dispossessed by the Dutch. In 1795-6 the British took possession of the Dutch settlements in the island, which were then annexed to the Presidency of Madras, but five years later, in 1801, Ceylon was constituted a separate Colony. In 1815 war was declared against the native Government of the interior; the last Kandyan King was taken prisoner, and the whole island fell under the rule of the British.

Constitution.

By Letters Patent under the Great Seal, April, 1831, a Council of Government was appointed, and by a supplementary commission to the then Governor (March, 1833) the form of Government almost as now existing was established.

The Government is administered by a Governor, aided by an Executive Council of five members, viz., the Colonial Secretary, the Officer Commanding the Troops, the Attorney-General, the Auditor-General, and the Treasurer; and a Legislative Council of 17 members, including the members of the Executive Council, four other office-holders, and eight nominated unofficial members.

For purposes of general administration, the Island is divided into nine Provinces, presided over by Government Agents, who with their assistants and subordinate Headmen are the channel of communication between the Government and the people.

Defence.

Imperial troops are stationed at Colombo and Kandy, and an annual contribution is paid to the Imperial Government for the cost of the garrison. The Colonial contribution for 1906 was Rs. 2,526,240.
The Colonial contribution for 1906 was Rs. 2,526,246.
It is fixed by ordinance at 9½ per cent. of the general revenue (less land sales and railway charges), but is never to exceed three-fourths of the cost of the garrison. Colombo harbour has been strongly fortified at the joint expense of the Colonial and Imperial Governments.

The volunteer force of the Colony at the end of December, 1906, consisted of 2,333 of all ranks.

**Population, Area, and Statistics.**

According to the decennial census, taken on the 1st March, 1901, the population is 3,578,333, an increase of 18¾ per cent. on the population enumerated in 1891. The details of the population are as follows (including the military, shipping, estates, and 4,914 prisoners of war):

- Western Province ... 925,342
- Central ditto ... 623,011
- Northern ditto ... 341,985
- Southern ditto ... 566,925
- Eastern ditto ... 174,288
- North-Western Province ... 353,845
- North-Central ditto ... 79,110
- Province of Uva ... 192,072
- Province of Sabaragamuwa ... 321,735

Total 3,578,333

Among these are 9,509 Europeans, 23,539 Burgers and Eurasians, 2,331,045 Sinhalese, 953,535 Tamils, 228,706 Moors, 11,963 Malays, and 20,036 persons of other nationalities. The Buddhists (2,141,596) number more than half the population, there are 828,480 Hindus, 357,772 Christians (mostly Catholic), 248,067 Mohammedans, and 2,418 other religionists. The population of the principal towns was as follows:

- Colombo, 158,228; Negombo, 19,946; Moratuwa, 29,600; Kalutara, 11,590; Kandy, 26,519; Jaffna, 33,879; Galle, 37,316; Matare, 11,848; Batticaloa, 10,037; Trincomalee, 11,913; Kurunegala, 6,483; Badulla, 5,924.

The number of Indian coolies on the tea estates, &c., is about 400,000. They are under no indentures, and are free to quit on giving a month's notice. The total number of plantation labourers, including coolies born and settled in Ceylon, as well as of other races, is estimated at 440,000.

The entire area of the Colony is 25,332 square miles. About one quarter of this area, after deducting backwaters, &c., is under cultivation. Some 4,000 square miles in the centre form the mountain zone with an altitude of from 1,500 to 8,000 feet above the sea level. The most important products are:

| Product       | Acres |
|---------------|-------|
| Cocoanuts     | 987,030 |
| Rice          | 634,567 |
| Tea           | 380,000 |
| Grain (other than Rice) | 137,007 |
| Rubber        | 104,000 |
| Cinnamon      | 43,383 |
| Cocoa         | 40,498 |
| Tobacco       | 39,000 |
| Coffee        | 3,174 |
| Cinchona      | 1,172 |

There are about 1,700 plumbago mines and pits in the island, which gave an aggregate yield of roughly 701,845 cwt. of mineral in 1906, the value of which may be estimated at over Rs. 10,457,490. There are about 7,226 gem quarries.

The pearl banks near Manar have been leased to an English Company for a term of twenty years from January 1st, 1906, at a rental of Rs. 310,000 per annum, it being stipulated that a sum of between Rs. 50,000 and Rs. 150,000, at the discretion of the Government, shall be expended annually by the Company upon the improvement of the banks on scientific lines.

The minimum upset price of Crown land is Rs. 15 per acre. 58,958 acres were sold in 1906 at an average price of Rs. 45 per acre. A large demand has recently arisen for land suitable for rubber cultivation.

The revenue is principally derived from Customs Duties, Land Sales, Licences (under which head is entered the amount realised by the sale of Arrack Rents), Salt (which is a Government monopoly), Stamps, and Railway Receipts. The revenue from the sale of salt in 1906 was Rs. 1,736,095. This is local salt worked by the Government, but the importation of foreign salt is allowed.

The local revenues raised by the Municipalities of Colombo, Kandy, and Galle, by the Provincial Road Committees, and by the Local Boards of Health and Improvement which have been established in the towns of Kalutara, Negombo, Minuwangoda, Gampola, Nuwara Eliya, Matale, Nawalapitiya, Hatton Dickoya, Matara, Batticaloa, Trincomalee, Kurunegala, Puttalam, Chilaw, Anuradapura, Badulla, Ratnapura, and Kegalla, amounted in 1906 to Rs. 5,088,938.

The municipal debt on 31st December, 1906, was Rs. 371,476.45 rupees. Of this amount 161,750 rupees is the balance unpaid out of a loan of 250,000 rupees for the construction of waterworks at Kandy, and 54,481 rupees balance of a loan obtained by the municipality of Galle in 1890 for the construction of waterworks.

The development of the tea industry is shown by the following statistics:—Export, 1884, 2,392,963 lbs.; 1886, 7,849,888 lbs.; 1888, 23,820,471 lbs.; 1890, 45,799,518 lbs.; 1892, 72,282,525 lbs.; 1893, 82,269,353 lbs.; 1894, 85,376,322 lbs.; 1895, 98,581,050 lbs.; 1896, 110,095,193 lbs.; 1897, 114,466,318 lbs.; 1898, 122,393,517 lbs.; 1899, 129,661,908 lbs.; 149,264,602 lbs. of tea were exported in 1900; 144,275,608 lbs. in 1901; 150,829,797 lbs. in 1902; 149,227,236 in 1903; 157,929,333 lbs. in 1904; 170,183,538 lbs. in 1905; and 170,530,403 in 1906.

There has been a remarkable development in rubber cultivation in recent years. Rubber was first brought to Ceylon in 1876, and its growth proved successful. On the failure of coffee planters preferred to substitute tea, which was found to thrive so well, and which gave a return three years after planting, whereas in the case of rubber six or seven years were required. On the price of tea falling, however, planters turned their attention to rubber, the demand for which had increased owing to trade requirements, and while in 1898 750 acres were estimated to be planted with rubber, in 1901 there were 2,500 acres, in 1904 11,000 acres, in 1905 40,000 acres, in 1906 100,000 acres, and in 1907, roughly, 150,000 acres under this product.

The value of the products of the cocoanut palm exported in 1906 was Rs. 30,172,525; of cinnamon exported, Rs. 2,612,128; and of cocoa exported, Rs. 2,052,414. Of the total Ceylon produce exported that portion going to the United Kingdom was valued at Rs. 54,968,258, that to British possessions valued at Rs. 21,757,606, and that to foreign countries at Rs. 35,790,990.

The chief imports are rice from India, valued at Rs. 39,043,042 in 1906; and textiles and coal from the United Kingdom.
Law and Justice.

The basis of the law is the Roman-Dutch law, much modified by the introduction of English law and by Colonial ordinances. The criminal law has been codified on the model of the Indian Penal Code, and the codification of the law of Criminal and Civil procedure respectively have been completed.

Justice is administered by the Supreme Court which has an original criminal jurisdiction and decides appeals from the inferior Courts both in civil and criminal cases; the Police Courts and Courts of Requests, which dispose, respectively, of trivial criminal and civil suits; and the District Courts, which have a criminal jurisdiction intermediate between that of the Supreme Court and the Police Courts, and a civil jurisdiction in all cases whatsoever. In addition to these there are the Gamabawas, or Village Councils, instituted under the Ordinance No. 24 of 1889, with powers to deal with petty offences and trifling claims. They have worked admirably, being thoroughly adapted to the genius of the people, and, besides settling a considerable amount of litigation, have provided a valuable machinery for carrying out local improvements. They are empowered to make rules, subject to the approval of the Governor and the Executive Council, relating to their village economy, and it is noticeable that in many instances they have not only voluntarily provided school buildings and undertaken the cost of the current expenses and repairs, but have made elementary education compulsory.

Education.

Satisfactory progress is being made in education. The number of scholars in Government schools at the end of 1906 was 73,433, in schools aided by Government 162,931, and in unaided schools 31,327.

The total expenditure on account of the Educational Department was rs. 1,071,732-28. In 1868, the number of scholars was only 6,897, and the expenditure 161,560 rupees. The improvement is due to the institution of a Department of Public Instruction, and the adoption of the system of payments for results. The Government schools are all unsectarian, and no fee is charged for vernacular education; small fees are charged for English teaching.

The higher education of the Colony has since 1st January, 1885, been mainly left to local effort, as, owing to retrenchment, the Department has been compelled to devote its funds mainly to the extension and development of primary education. The only High School entirely supported by Government is now the Royal College, but there are numerous and excellent Grant-in-Aid High Schools. Two Government scholarships each of 200l. per annum for 3 years, to be spent at English Universities, are awarded annually.

Technical education is provided at the Grant-in-Aid Industrial Schools and Orphanages, of which there are 38. A central Technical College was founded in Colombo in 1893.

A Government Training College for Masters in English Schools and Government Anglo-Vernacular Schools was opened in 1903.

Medical Institutions.

There is a Medical College, with a full staff of professors. The lectures are recognised by the examining bodies in Great Britain. There are two departments in the College, the Medical and the Apothecary. The former consists of students whose course of study extends over five years. A licence to practise medicine, surgery and midwifery is granted to each member of the Medical department who passes the prescribed examinations in the College. This licence is recognised by the General Medical Council of Great Britain as a registrable qualification. The members of the Apothecary department, after a training of two years, and after passing the prescribed examination, are qualified to serve as apothecaries. Female students were admitted from 1st May, 1892. There were 154 students attending during the year 1907, of whom 111 belonged to the Medical and 43 to the Apothecary department.

The Government maintains 66 hospitals, exclusive of 22 infectious hospitals, 19 jail hospitals, and two asylums, one for lunatics of 476 beds, and the other for lepers of 332 beds. There are special institutions for diseases of women, and for the eye, ear and throat. There is a Bacteriological Institute. There are 359 dispensaries, 66 of which are attached to hospitals, the remaining 293 are institutions independent of hospitals. In addition there are 143 private estate dispensaries which receive free drugs from the Government.

The Ceylon Civil Medical Department consists of one Principal Civil Medical Officer and Inspector-General of Hospitals who is also Principal of the Medical College, one Assistant Principal Civil Medical Officer and Inspector-General of Hospitals, one Registrar of College, one Director De Soya Bacteriological Institute, one Public Analyst, one Professor of Chemistry and one Professor of Physics, 82 officers having British qualifications, 4 with Calcutta degrees, 4 with Madras degrees, 3 medical women with British qualifications, 47 with licences to practise granted by the Ceylon Medical College, 242 apothecaries, 8 inspectors of vaccination, and 108 vaccinators, including 5 females. There are two institutions where nurses are trained, and the nursing staff consists of 14 European qualified nurses, 31 European Roman Catholic sisters (untrained), 27 matrons and 33 nurses trained locally, and 22 pupils in training.

The cost of working the department amounted in 1906 to rs. 2,284,294-77. The expenditure on account of estate medical aid was rs. 631,207-57. The receipts, which included cost of maintenance of paying patients, sale of medicines, voluntary collections at dispensaries and medical college fees, etc., amounted to rs. 315,342-72. The export duty levied for the partial upkeep of the Estates Branch of the Department yielded rs. 158,389-03.

Currency and Banking.

The weights and measures in common use are British.

Accounts are kept in rupees, and the money in circulation is Indian and Ceylon rupee currency and sovereigns, gold having been made a legal tender at the fixed rate of rs. 15 per sovereign in 1901. Ceylon cents take the place of the Indian annas and pice. The notes of the Chartered Mercantile Bank remained in circulation to some extent until 1888, when its charter expired, but since the failure of the Oriental Banking Corporation in 1884, the Government has instituted a note-issue of which the amount in circulation on the 31st August, 1904, was rs. 12,651,095. These notes are legal tender except at the Colombo Issue Office.
The salaries of the higher public officers were revised in 1905. Those appointed from England subsequent to January 1st, 1905, receive a sterling salary payable in Ceylon at the current rate of exchange. Those appointed prior to that date were given the option of either (a) accepting the sterling salaries assigned to their appointments, which were fixed at a sum higher than the rupee salaries formerly attached to them, and forfeiting (a) the privileged rates of exchange for leave pay and pension drawn in the United Kingdom, viz.: 1s. 10½d. per rupee in the case of officers appointed before 19th February, 1897, and 1s. 6d. in the case of officers appointed between that date and 1st January, 1905; and (b) the exchange compensation granted when the salaries were fixed in rupees, i.e., the allowance in rupees in respect of half the salary drawn in Ceylon, sufficient to make up the difference between the market value of the rupee (1s. 4d.) and 1s. 6d.; or (B) of continuing on the rupee salary previously assigned, enhanced by double exchange compensation, the whole being a pensionable emolument, and the privilege rate of exchange being retained for leave and pension purposes.

The following banks have establishments in the Colony: Mercantile Bank of India, Limited; Chartered Bank of India, Australia, and China; Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation; Bank of Madras; National Bank of India, Limited. None of these now issue notes in Ceylon.

The Ceylon Savings Bank was established in 1832, and Post Office savings banks were opened in 1885, and the two together had on 31st December, 1906, rs. 6,307,964 deposited.

Public Works.

The Colombo Harbour.

The Harbour Works consist of three breakwaters. The South-West, commenced in 1873, and completed in 1885, at a cost of 705,207L, is 4,212 feet long, and runs from the shore in a direction North by East. It is built of concrete blocks weighing from 18 to 30 tons, set in what is known as the sloping bond system.

The North-East and North-West breakwaters were commenced in 1894, and completed in 1906, at a total cost of 500,000L. The North-East breakwater is a rubble embankment 1,100 feet long, tipped from a staging.

The North-West breakwater is an island work, 2,657 feet in length, running between the two shore breakwaters, leaving a southern entrance of 800 feet, and a northern entrance of 700 feet. This breakwater is of similar construction to the South-West arm.

These three breakwaters enclose an area of 640 acres, or one square mile, with a depth of from 30 to 36 feet at low water.

The Graving Dock. In addition to the above-named works a Graving Dock was commenced in 1899, and is now in use. It is 700 feet long, 85 feet wide at the entrance, and has a depth over the sill of 30 feet at low water. Its cost will be about 400,000L. A guide pier, 800 feet long, to assist vessels entering the dock, is still under construction.

The Patent Slip was commenced in 1899, and opened on the 1st January, 1903, at a cost of 43,000L. It is 800 feet long, the cradle being 220 feet, and is capable of dealing with vessels up to 1,200 tons dead weight.

The Coalings Depot consists of 24 acres of land, reclaimed from the sea, with a frontage of 2,200 feet, from which 18 jetties project into the harbour for the landing, stacking and shipping of coal. The total cost of the Reclamation and Jetties will amount to about 163,000L.

The Fishery Harbour has been constructed to the northward of Colombo harbour for the use of the fishermen as a beaching ground, the whole of the foreshore inside Colombo harbour having been covered up by reclamation work. The fishery harbour consists of a rubble breakwater running out from the shore in a curve for 800 feet, the sheltered part forming a natural beaching ground for fishing canoes. The cost will be approximately 35,000L.

The whole of the above works, with the exception of the guide pier at the dock, have been completed. The total expenditure on the harbour from 1873 to the 30th June, 1907, amounted to rs. 36,865,940 or 2,437,730L, taking the value of the rupee at 1s. 4d.

An extension of the S.W. breakwater, starting from a point 3,150 feet from the shore end, has been sanctioned, and the work is now in hand. The new arm has a length of 2,000 feet and runs in a direction almost due north, protecting the present main entrance from the S.W. Monsoon seas. The cost of this additional arm will be 440,000L, and it will be completed about 1912. Works have been constructed for the storage and supply of water to Colombo. The water is stored in a reservoir at Labugama, 25 miles distant from Colombo, and conveyed by piping to the service reservoirs at Maligakanda and Ellie House, whence it is distributed through the town. The total cost of the scheme was rs. 4,330,000 exclusive of the cost of Ellie House reservoir. A duplication of the main and reservoir at Ellie House have been completed at a cost of about rs. 1,863,200.

In the matter of communication, great efforts have been made to keep pace with the growing requirements of the Colony. The telephone has been introduced in Colombo, and the principal towns are connected by the telegraph, which is connected with the Indian telegraph system—1,633 miles of line, comprising 3,470 miles of wire, are open in Ceylon.

The lines of railway, all of which are owned and worked by the Government, are distributed thus:—Broad Gauge (5ft. 6in.), Colombo to Bandarawela (160 miles), Polgahwela to Kankeanturai (211½ miles), Peradeniya Junction to Kandy and Matale (21 miles), Ragama Junction to Mahara Quarry (1½ miles), Colombo to Matara (98½ miles), Fort Junction to Wharf (14 miles). Narrow Gauge (2ft. 6in.), Colombo to Yatiantota (47¾ miles) Nanuoya to Ragalla (19¼ miles). Total mileage 561½ miles. The total cost of construction up to 31st December, 1905, charged in account was rs. 76,536,062. The receipts during 1905 were rs. 9,690,653, and expenditure rs. 5,206,899.

Of metalled and track metalled roads there are 2,712·51 miles; gravelled and natural roads, 683·98 and 366·23 miles respectively; of canals 153·02 miles. The maintenance of 3,762·72 miles of road cost, in 1905, rs. 1,766,589, or an average rate of rs. 469 per mile. This is exclusive of roads within municipal limits, and of minor roads which are not in the charge of the Department of Public Works. Every male between the ages of 18 and 55 is bound to perform six days' labour in the year on the roads, or to contribute a rupee and a half (two rupees in the town of Colombo) by way of co- mutation. The Road Committees collect
commutation, but the amount derived from this source is inconsiderable as compared with the outlay. Substantial progress has been made in recent years in the restoration of the ancient irrigation tanks, and the construction of new waterworks.

Means of Communication.

1. A fortnightly mail service by P. and O. steamers between the United Kingdom, India, Ceylon, Straits and China, and Australia. 2. A fortnightly service between Marseilles, Ceylon, Straits and China, and India, and a monthly service between Ceylon and Australia by the steamers of the Messageries Maritimes. 3. A fortnightly service between the United Kingdom and Australia, calling at Colombo, Ceylon, by steamers of the Orient Royal Mail Line. 4. By the steamers of the Norddeutscher Lloyd Steam Navigation Company, a fortnightly service between Europe and China and Ceylon, and a monthly service between Ceylon and Australia. The passage to Brindisi or Marseilles generally occupies from 14 to 16 days, and to Bombay, Madras, Calcutta, Penang, Singapore, and China 4, 2, 6, 5, 5, and 14 days respectively. There is also a monthly mail service between Ceylon and Mauritius, and a daily service between Ceylon and India carried on by the steamers of the British India Steam Navigation Company.

Letters, etc., from England reach Colombo in about 16 days (14½ minimum, 17½ maximum).

Further facilities are afforded for communication by the British India Steam Navigation Company, the Austro-Hungarian Lloyd's, the Clan Line, the City Line, Anchor Line, Compania Transatlantica, Holt's, &c. The steamers of the first leave Colombo weekly for Bombay and Calcutta, calling at intermediate ports in India, and their fortnightly service between Calcutta and London calls at Colombo.

Rates of Postage.

To the United Kingdom, and British Colonies and Protectorates which have adopted the Imperial Penny Postage.*

| Year | Revenue | Expenditure | British Tonnage | Total Tonnage |
|------|---------|-------------|-----------------|---------------|
| Rs.  | Rs.     | Rs.         | Rs.             | Rs.           |
| 1897 | 24,006,521 | 21,634,377 | 5,444,526       | 6,704,747     |
| 1898 | 25,138,669 | 22,843,852 | 5,638,876       | 7,482,641     |
| 1899 | 25,913,142 | 24,950,940 | 5,838,153       | 7,439,205     |
| 1900 | 27,325,930 | 25,321,988 | 6,144,435       | 8,487,940     |
| 1901 | 26,457,102 | 25,896,594 | 6,323,492       | 9,028,570     |
| 1902 | 28,435,157 | 26,341,878 | 6,947,898       | 9,553,256     |
| 1903 | 29,423,308 | 27,078,738 | 7,110,021       | 10,316,738    |
| 1904 | 30,846,694 | 32,279,198 | 8,574,656       | 12,226,599    |
| 1905 | 34,335,356 | 32,087,491 | 8,236,771       | 11,157,925    |

Revenue, 1906 Rs. 35,030,660
Expenditure, 1906 Rs. 32,641,214
British Tonnage, 1906 9,363,517 tons
Total Tonnage, 1906 12,299,656 tons

Public Debt, December, 1906, £4,638,334l. and Rs. 3,144,078.

Imports.

| Year | From U.K. | From Colonies | From Elsewhere | Total |
|------|-----------|---------------|----------------|-------|
| Rs.  | Rs.       | Rs.           | Rs.            | Rs.   |
| 1897 | 25,357,311 | 60,147,366    | 11,922,796     | 98,027,479 |
| 1898 | 26,269,887 | 63,999,712    | 7,623,460      | 97,893,059 |
| 1899 | 31,555,193 | 70,136,415    | 10,300,740     | 111,992,349 |
| 1900 | 33,703,390 | 75,168,847    | 13,467,521     | 122,339,757 |
| 1901 | 30,874,590 | 70,637,847    | 11,094,489     | 112,626,926 |
| 1902 | 32,697,343 | 65,640,957    | 11,129,985     | 109,468,265 |
| 1903 | 32,890,451 | 71,620,136    | 11,749,499     | 116,259,636 |
| 1904 | 26,170,461 | 77,607,734    | 12,705,048     | 116,483,243 |
| 1905 | 25,180,405 | 77,425,992    | 12,630,838     | 115,237,235 |
| 1906 | 29,818,724 | 81,158,151    | 12,526,046     | 123,502,921 |

Exports.

| Year | To U.K. | To Colonies | To Elsewhere | Tot al. |
|------|---------|-------------|--------------|--------|
| Rs.  | Rs.     | Rs.         | Rs.          | Rs.    |
| 1897 | 51,274,207 | 17,919,544  | 8,480,321    | 77,674,073 |
| 1898 | 52,530,107 | 16,218,068  | 16,624,447   | 85,372,622 |
| 1899 | 61,076,138 | 14,135,597  | 26,365,171   | 101,576,906 |
| 1900 | 56,295,524 | 18,086,705  | 20,580,047   | 94,961,276 |
| 1901 | 50,158,739 | 18,994,800  | 20,755,749   | 89,809,288 |
| 1902 | 53,643,256 | 17,318,766  | 28,440,868   | 99,402,890 |
| 1903 | 54,134,081 | 23,130,866  | 31,493,451   | 108,768,393 |
| 1904 | 51,344,423 | 21,283,769  | 31,637,734   | 104,265,926 |
| 1905 | 53,978,213 | 19,299,403  | 29,212,443   | 102,489,059 |
| 1906 | 54,968,258 | 21,757,666  | 35,790,990   | 112,416,914 |

The total customs revenue in 1906 was Rs. 8,358,542.

* See list at end of Introduction.
† Per 4 oz.
‡ 15 cents for the first oz.; 9 cents for the second and each succeeding oz.

For Governors previous to 1850, see Editions of 1859.
Executive Council.

Governor, Colonel Sir H. E. McCallum, R.E., G.C.M.G., A.D.C.
Commanding the Forces, Brigadier-Gen. R. C. B. Lawrence.
Colonial Secretary, Hugh Clifford, C.M.G.
Attorney-General, A. G. Lascelles, K.C.; J. C. W. Pereira (acting).
Controller of Revenue, H. L. Crawford, C.M.G.
Treasurer, H. C. Nicolle; H. W. F. C. Brodhurst (acting).
Clerk of the Council, C. R. Cumberland.

Legislative Council.

Governor, Colonel Sir H. E. McCallum, R.E., G.C.M.G., A.D.C.
Commanding the Forces, Brigadier-Gen. R. C. B. Lawrence.
Colonial Secretary, Hugh Clifford, C.M.G.
Attorney-General, A. G. Lascelles, K.C.; J. C. W. Pereira (acting).
Controller of Revenue, H. L. Crawford, C.M.G.
Treasurer, H. C. Nicolle.
Government Agent, Western Province, L. W. Booth (acting).
Government Agent, Central Province, J. P. Lewis.
Director of Public Works, F. A. Cooper, C.M.G.
Surveyor-General, P. D. Warren (acting).
Principal Collector of Customs, W. H. Jackson.
Unofficial Members, S. C. Obeyesekara, F. C. Loos, W. H. Figg, W. M. Abdul Rahiman, E. Roaling (W. D. Gibbon, acting), J. Ferguson, C.M.G., A. Kanagassai, T. B. L. Moonemalle.
Clerk, A. G. Clayton; A. R. Slater (acting).

Civil Establishment.

Governor, d.s., Colonel Sir H. E. McCallum, R.E., G.C.M.G., A.D.C., Rs. 105,000.*
Private Secretary, A. J. Hedgeland.
Aide-de-Camp, Major H. D. Walter; Lieut. J. Curling, Royal Field Artillery, extra A.D.C.
Additional Aide-de-Camp, Major Gordon Frazer, Ceylon Volunteers.
Colonial Secretary, Hugh Clifford, C.M.G., 2,000l.
Principal Assistant, C. R. Cumberland, Rs. 11,250.
Second Assistant Colonial Secretary, F. J. Smith, Rs. 8,438.
Additional Assistant, A. G. Clayton, Rs. 11,250; A. R. Slater (acting), 600l.
Chief Clerk, J. E. Christoffelz, Rs. 4,000.
Cadets, commencing at 300l. per annum:—G. F. Forrest,† A. W. Seymour, G. F. Roberts, T. Reid, A. P. Boone,† J. C. W. Rock, T. A. Hodson,† T. G. Willett, E. T. Hughes, F. H. Chambers,† T. A. Carey, J. D. Brown,† M. M. Wedderburn, H. A. Burden, K. Perks, G. W. B. Throckmorton, D. W. Arnott, C. H. Jones, H. W. Milligan.
Maha Mudaliyar, Sir Solomon Dias Bandaranaike, Kt., C.M.G., Rs. 2,500.
Government Printer, H. C. Cottle, Rs. 6,375.
Assistant ditto, H. M. Richards, Rs. 4,966.
Second Assistant ditto, J. Fonseka, 240l. to 303l.
Third Assistant ditto, J. Lambert, Rs. 2,613.
Controller of Revenue, H. L. Crawford, C.M.G.
Assistant Controller, E de Kretser, I.S.O., 500l.
Treasurer, H. C. Nicolle, Rs. 20,250; H. W. F. C. Brodhurst (acting).
Assistant ditto, W. Van Langenberg, Rs. 3,600.
Accountant and Financial Assistant, H. A. Martin, 500l. to 650l.
Assistant Accountant, F. J. Tothill, 350l. to 450l.
Colonial Auditor, Bernard Senior, 800l. to 1,000l.

* Including Rs. 22,500 entertainment allowance.
† Seconded for service in Police Department.

Government Agencies.

WESTERN PROVINCE.
Government Agent, L. W. Booth (acting), Rs. 16,083.
Office Assistant, Colombo, E. B. F. Sueter, 400l. to 500l.
Assistant Government Agent, Kalutara, J. Conroy, 400l. to 500l.

CENTRAL PROVINCE.
Government Agent, J. P. Lewis, Rs. 18,896.
Office Assistant, Kandy, L. S. Woolf, 400l. to 500l.
Assistant Government Agent, Matale, F. Bowes, Rs. 10,125.
Ditto, ditto, Nuwara Eliya, F. Bartlett, Rs. 9,772.

NORTHERN PROVINCE.
Government Agent, F. H. Price (acting), Rs. 16,000.
Office Assistant, Jaffna, T. A. Carey (acting), 350l.
Assistant Government Agent, Mannar, G. F. R. Browning (acting), 400l. to 500l.
Assistant Government Agent, Mullaitivu, C. V. Brayne (acting), 400l. to 500l.

SOUTHERN PROVINCE.
Government Agent, C. M. Lushington, Rs. 17,030.
Office Assistant, J. C. W. Rock (acting), 350l.
Assistant Government Agent, Hambantota, L. W. C. Schrader, Rs. 8,329.
Ditto, Matara, W. L. Kindersley, Rs. 10,125.

EASTERN PROVINCE.
Government Agent, H. R. Freeman (acting), Rs. 12,087.
Office Assistant, Batticaloa, T. Reid (acting), 350l.
Assistant Government Agent, Trincomalee, G. Cookson, Rs. 11,250.

NORTH WESTERN PROVINCE.
Government Agent, G. S. Saxton (acting), Rs. 13,500.
Office Assistant, Kurunegala, E. T. Millington 400 to 500l.
Assistant Government Agent, Puttalam, A. C. Allnutt, 550l. to 700l.
Ditto, ditto, Chilaw, R. G. Saunders (acting) 500l.

NORTH CENTRAL PROVINCE.
Government Agent, C. S. Vaughan, Rs. 11,250.
Office Assistant, Anuradhapura, A. W. Seymour, 400l. to 500l.

PROVINCE OF UVA.
Government Agent, H. White, Rs. 13,462.
Office Assistant, G. F. Roberts (acting), 350l.

PROVINCE OF SABARAGAMUWA.
Government Agent, R. B. Hellings, Rs. 11,968.
Office Assistant, W. A. Weerakoon, 400l. to 500l.
Assistant Government Agent, Kegalle, H. W. Codrington (acting), 400 to 500l.

Judicial Establishment.

Chief Justice, Sir Joseph T. Hutchinson, 2,250l.
Private Secretary, H. G. Wace, Rs. 3,000.
Senior Puisne Judge, H. L. Wendt, 1,400l. (on leave).
Private Secretary.

Junior Puisne Judges, J. P. Middleton, A. Wood Renton, 1,400l., J. R. Grenier (acting).

Private Secretaries, G. Grenier and A. Hume Renton, Rs. 2,000.

Attorney-General, A. G. Lascelles, K.C., 1,450l., J C. W. Pereira (acting).

Solicitor-General, Walter Pereira, 750l. to 900l., H. A. Loos (acting).

Crown Counsel:—
H. A. Loos, 600l.
C. M. Fernando, 550l.
L. Maatendz, 400l.

Two vacancies, 400l. and 300l., W. B. Drieberg (acting).

Registrar of Supreme Court, H. W. Nelson, Rs. 6,000.

Deputy, ditto, ditto, F. C. Loos, Rs. 4,200.

Second Deputy ditto, L. L. Daniels, Rs. 3,540.

Third Deputy ditto, C. W. Goonewardene, Rs. 3,000.

DISTRICT OF COLOMBO AND MIDLAND CIRCUIT.

District Judge, Colombo, Joseph Grenier, 1,200l.

Additional District Judge, Colombo, F. R. Dias, 800l.

District Judge and Joint Commissioner of Requests, Kandy, J. H. Templer, 1,100l.

District Judges, Commissioners of Requests, and Police Magistrates, at:—

Kalutara, P. E. Pieris, 700l.

Negombo, A. de A. Seneviratne (acting), Rs. 7,000.

Kurunegala, B. Hill, Rs. 11,250.

Badulla, W. A. G. Hood, 700l.

Ratnapura, Allan Beven, 575l.

Keyulla, H. J. V. Ekanayake (acting) 275l.

Police Magistrate, Colombo, R. W. Byrde, Rs. 9,000.

Commissioner of Requests, Colombo, (vacant).

Commissioners of Requests and Police Magistrates at:—

Kandy, T. B. Russell, 600l.

Hatton N. Eliya, J. Scott, 475l.

Kurunegala, T. R. E. Loftus, 500l.

Matara and Panwila, W. Dunuwille, 500l.

Pituvudure, T. W. Roberts, 450l.

Kalutara, J. E. de Silva, Rs. 3,000.

Nuwara Eliya, F. Bartlett.

Anawela, B. J. Dutton, 500l.

Police Magistrate, Gampola, W. de Livera, Rs. 3,000.

Itinerating Police Magistrate, Western Province Peter de Saram, 450l.

SOUTHERN CIRCUIT.

District Judges, Commissioners of Requests, and Police Magistrates at:—

Galle, G. A. Baumgartner, Rs. 18,000.

Tangalla, L. W. C. Schrader, Rs. 7,875.

Matara, G. S. Saxton, Rs. 13,500.

Commissioners of Requests and Police Magistrates at:—

Galle, H. E. Beven, 500l.

Hambantota, L. W. C. Schrader.

Butapitiyomada, F. D. Pieris (acting), Rs. 3,000.

Matara, P. B. Godamune, Rs. 3,000.

Itinerating Police Magistrate, Southern Province, F. W. de Silva (acting), Rs. 3,000.

NORTHERN CIRCUIT.

District Judge and Joint Commissioner of Requests and Police Magistrate, Jaffna, W. R. B. Sanders, Rs. 12,937.

District Judges, Commissioners of Requests, and Police Magistrates at:—

Anuradhapura, C. S. Vaughan.

Butticaloa, G. W. Woodhouse, Rs. 9,562-50l.

Chilaw, R. G. Saunders.

Trincomalee, G. M. Cookson.

Mannar, G. F. R. Browning.

Mullaitivu, C. V. Brayne.

Puttalam, A. C. Allnutt.

Commissioners of Requests and Police Magistrates at:—

Jaffna, C. Prins (acting), Rs. 3,000.

Point Pedro and Chavakachcheri, C. Valliparam (acting), Rs. 3,000.

Chilaw, H. J. Woutersz (acting), Rs. 3,000.

Kayts, R. W. Allegacoon, 500l.

Additional Commissioner of Requests and Police Magistrate, Anuradhapura, A. F. Seymour.

Fiscal, Western Province, The Government Agent, Western Province.

Deputy Fiscal, E. F. Ondatje, 500l.

Customs Department.

Principal Collector, W. H. Jackson, Rs. 18,000.

Deputy Collector and Landing Surveyor, B. Constantine, Rs. 10,125.

Landing Surveyor, Colombo, A. N. Galbraith, 450l.

SOUTHERN PROVINCE.

Collector, C. M. Lushington (Government Agent).

Assistant Collector, G. F. Halliley (acting).

NORTHERN PROVINCE.

Collector, F. H. Price (Government Agent).

Assistant Collector and Landing Surveyor, Jaffna, T. A. Carey.

EASTERN PROVINCE.

Collector, E. F. Hopkins (Government Agent).

Assistant Collector and Landing Surveyor, Trincomalee, H. A. Bell (acting).

Harbour Department.

Master Attendant, Colombo, J. A. Legge, 700l.

" " Galle, H. C. Bloomfield.

" " Trincomalee, H. A. Bell.

" " Jaffna, F. H. Price.

" " Butticaloa, H. R. Freeman.

" " Hambantota, L. W. C. Schrader.

Public Works Department.

Headquarters, Colombo:—

Director of Public Works, Hon. F. A. Cooper, C.M.G., M.I.C.E., Rs. 20,250.

Assistant Director of Public Works, C. A. Lovegrove, A.M.I.C.E., 900l.

Financial Assistant and Accountant, A. Lewis, 425l.

Architectural Assistant, A. Woodeson, A.R.I.B.A., 450l.

Factory Engineer, E. C. Davies, Rs. 10,000.

Mechanical Engineer, G. H. M. Hyde, M.I.M.E., A.M.I.C.E., Rs. 6,000, and a personal allowance of Rs. 1,000.

Works Superintendent, F. B. Rylands, 350l.

Foreman of Fitters, J. W. H. Gill, Rs. 3,000.

Provincial Engineers:—

H. A. Grant, A.M.I.C.E., Rs. 10,625; L. M. Acland, A.M.I.C.E., Rs. 10,625; H. F. Tomalin, M.I.C.E., F.R.I.B.A., F.G.S., Rs. 9,000; P. M. Bingham, M.I.C.E., 700l.; W. W. Pole Fletcher, A.M.I.C.E., 700l.; W. C. Price, B.A., 650l.; G. Waddell, A.M.I.C.E., 650l.; T. H. Chapman, A.M.I.C.E., 650l.; C. F. Emerson, 600l.
District Engineers:—

1st Grade.—A. E. Caldicott, A.M.I.C.E., 500l.; H. Bucknall, A.M.I.C.E., 500l.; R. W. I. Crabbe, 500l.; A. E. Mayes, A.M.I.C.E., Rs. 6,750; R. A. Powell, A.R.C.S.C.I., A.M.I.C.E., M.S.I., 500l.; R. G. Carte, A.M.I.C.E., Rs. 5,625; A. Rothwell, 450l.; J. G. Drieberg, A.M.I.C.E., 475l.; J. Jeffrey, 475l.; H. T. Creasy, 600l.; W. R. W. Morgan, A.M.I.C.E., 450l.; A. de C. Carson, 450l.; E. H. Vanderstraaten, 450l.; E. W. Cade, 425l.

2nd Grade.—C. H. de Silva, 350l.; R. J. K. MacBride, 350l.; S. W. Dassauaika, F.C.N., S.I.C.E., 350l.; A. H. F. Clarke, 350l.; E. G. Eves, 350l.; S. H. Bower, 350l.; A. N. Robertson, 350l.; D. K. McMinn, 350l.; T. G. Jayawardene, A.M.I.M.E., 350l.; H. E. de Kretser, 350l.; A. E. Vanderstraaten, 350l.; J. V. Weerasinghe, 350l.; W. J. Thornhill, 350l.; W. B. Gregson, 350l.; A. C. B. Jonklaas, 350l.; A. H. Nathanielsz, A.M.I.C.E., 350l.; H. K. de Kretser, 350l.; H. L. Groocock, M.Sc., 325l.; J. A. Moraea, 325l.; H. B. Lees, 325l.; S. M. S. Rajasooriya, 325l.; C. C. Fielder, 325l.; A. P. Brohier, 300l.; F. W. Sproule, 300l.; O. de Kretser, 300l.

3rd Grade.—3 at Rs. 2,700 and 3 at Rs. 2,160.

Seven Inspectors, at Rs. 1,620 to Rs. 1,800 each by annual increments of Rs. 36.

Fifteen Head Overseers at Rs. 1,080 to Rs. 1,260 each by annual increments of Rs. 36.

Irrigation Department.

Headquarters:—

Director of Irrigation, H. T. S. Ward, M.I.C.E., Rs. 12,750.

Assistant Director of Irrigation, R. W. Smith, A.M.I.C.E., B.A.B.E., Trin. Coll. (Dublin), Rs. 11,250.

Chief Clerk, F. M. Yambiyah, Rs. 1,100.

Irrigation Engineers—Permanent Staff:—

R. F. Morris, 500l.
J. A. Balfour, A.M.I.C.E., 500l.
G. D. Gordon, 500l.
J. H. W. Park, B.Sc., A.M.I.C.E., 500l.
W. Brown, B.Sc., A.M.I.C.E., 475l.
G. T. Bradley, A.M.I.M.E., A.M.I.E.E., J. H. Fraser, 475l.
C. F. S. Baker, 475l.
L. P. Emerson, 475l.
O. W. Henman, 450l.
R. S. MacPhail, 425l.

Temporarily Engaged:—

C. Harward, 350l.
B. G. Meaden, A.M.I.C.E., 350l.
B. C. Fruhling, 350l.
R. Neilson, 325l.
T. Hamer, 325l.
R. D. Taylor, 325l.
T. Stewart, A.M.I.C.E., 325l.
J. A. Varey, 300l.
L. J. Harris, 300l.
F. R. Pearson, 300l.
One vacancy.
C. Zanetti, Rs. 3,000.

Assistant Irrigation Engineer:—

(Vacant).

Chief Irrigation Inspectors:—

M. Sanmukam, Rs. 3,600.
C. Kanakasuriyam, B.C.E. (Madras), Rs. 3,000.
S. Ramalingam, Rs. 2,500.

Irrigation Surveyor:—

H. C. Berwick, Rs. 2,158-40.

Irrigation Inspectors:—

G. B. de Silva, Rs. 1,800.
A. C. Buttery, Rs. 1,500.
M. T. Winslow, Rs. 1,500.
W. Ksil, Rs. 1,500.
A. C. Rodrigo, Rs. 1,200.
G. Muttuvelu, Rs. 1,200.
M. A. Vasagam, Rs. 1,200.
G. W. Selvadurai, Rs. 1,200.
E. J. Meurling, Rs. 1,200.
S. A. Weeraperuma, Rs. 1,200
J. L. Caspersz.

Irrigation Sub-Inspectors:—

First Class, 14 at Rs. 1,000 each.
Second Class, 33 at Rs. 720 each.

Survey Department.

Surveyor-General, P. D. Warren, F.R.G.S., Rs. 13,812.

Assistant Surveyor-General, R. S. Templeton, F.R.G.S., Rs. 9,900.

Superintendents of Surveys:—

S. J. C. More, 600l.; J. L. Hampton, 600l.; J. W. Viner, 600l.; C. C. M. Fyers, 600l.; A. E. Maddock, 575l.; H. O. Barnard, Rs. 9,000 (Trigonometrical); W. C. S. Ingles, Rs. 8,250 (Application); A. J. Wickwar, Rs. 8,250 (Topographical); J. B. M. Ridout, Rs. 6,625.

Assistant Superintendents of Surveys:—

H. Erskine, 350l.; L. Shipton, Rs. 5,250; C. Meaden, 350l.; A. H. G. Dawson, 350l.; C. F. W. Halliley, 350l.; C. R. Lundie, 350l.; J. W. Robertson, Rs. 3,500; G. F. Heppenstall, 350l.; A. J. Stromach, 300l.; A. E. Dircke, 300l.

Surveyors:—

1st Grade, 6 at Rs. 3,000 to Rs. 3,600.
2nd Grade, 13 at Rs. 2,400 to Rs. 3,000.
3rd Grade, 7 at Rs. 1,920 to Rs. 2,400.
4th Grade, 5 at Rs. 1,200 to Rs. 1,320.
80 Supernumerary Surveyors, and 26 Temporary Surveyors.

Land Settlement Department.

Settlement Officer, J. G. Fraser, Rs. 11,250.

Assistant Officers, H. O. Fox, Rs. 11,250; J. M. Davies, 450l.; W. E. Wait, 425l.

Mineralogical Survey Department.

Director, J. Parsons, 400l.

Assistant, J. A. Daniel.

Registrar-General's Department.

Registrar-General, P. Arunachalam, Rs. 17,437.

Assistant to Registrar-General, N. W. Morgappah, Rs. 3,000.

Post-Office.

Postmaster-General and Director-General of Telegraphs, A. S. Paglen.

Assistant to the Postmaster-General, W. C. Macready, Rs. 9,000.

Second Assistant, T. Harward, 350l.

Accountant, John Fox, 650l.

Assistant Accountant, H. J. Lovett, Rs. 6,750.

Senior Inspector of Post Offices, R. A. Brohier, jun., Rs. 3,600.

Junior Inspector of Post Offices, T. M. Herft, Rs. 1,500.
Telegraphs.

Superintendent Post Office Telegraphs, D. Montagu, Rs. 7,875.
Assistant Superintendent Telegraphs, A. L. Cook, 350l.; C. W. Lund, 350l.

Department of Public Instruction.

Director, J. Harward, M.A., 950l.
Office Assistant, E. E. Davidson, Rs. 3,000.
Inspector of Schools, R. B. Strickland, M.A., 550l.
Ditto, A. van Cuylenburg, Rs. 6,000.
Ditto, C. H. Kriekenbeck, Rs. 3,600.
Ditto, E. H. Vanderwall, Rs. 2,700.
Inspectress of Girls' English Schools, Miss A. G. Gibbon, Rs. 3,000.
Inspectress of Needlework, Mrs. M. Evans, Rs. 3,240.
Principal of the Royal College, C. Hartley, M.A., Rs. 10,800.
Science Master, Royal College, A. F. Joseph, 350l.
Lecturer in English and Modern Languages, Royal College, H. G. Rawlinson, B.A., 425l.
Mathematical and Science Master, L. Walker, M.A., Rs. 6,750.
Superintendent of the Technical College, E. Human, A.M.I.C.E., A.I.E.E., Rs. 8,437-50.
Instructor Electrical Engineering, Thomas Cockerill, F.C.S., A.I.E.E., 450l.
Instructor in Drawing, A. Bartlam, 390l.
Instructor in Civil and Mechanical Engineering, C. E. M. Brixey, Rs. 4,200.
Principal Training College, E. Evans, B.Sc., 500l.
Vice-Principal Training College, J. Dall, 300l. to 400l.
Superintendent of School Gardens, C. Drieberg, B.A., Rs. 3,792.

Botanic Gardens.

Director of the Royal Botanic Garden, J. C. Willis, M.A., Rs. 9,000.
Assistant Director and Mycologist, T. Petch, 400l.
Entomologist, E. E. Green, 400l.
Controller, Experiment Station, Peradeniya, H. Wright, 450l.
Superintendent of the Hakgala Botanic Gardens, J. K. Nock, 276l.

Colombo Museum.

Director of the Colombo Museum, A. Willey, F.R.S., 550l.
Librarian of the Colombo Museum, G. A. Joseph, Rs. 2,256.

Forest Department.

Conservator of Forests, T. J. Campbell, Rs. 18,000.
Assistant Conservators, H. F. C. Fyers, Rs. 7,000; E. L. Boyd Moss, Rs. 6,000; G. D. Templer, Rs. 3,500; H. C. Toller, Rs. 3,500; F. Booth, Rs. 3,500; F. J. S. Turner, Rs. 3,000; L.V.Williams, Rs. 3,000; J. C. C. Middleton, Rs. 2,000; A. B. Lushington, Rs. 2,000; 1 Forester, Rs. 1,800 to Rs. 2,000; 5 Foresters, Rs. 1,200 to Rs. 1,600.

Medical Department.

Principal Civil Medical Officer and Inspector General of Hospitals, Major Sir Allan Perry, Rs. 21,000.
Assistant Principal Civil Medical Officer and Inspector-General of Hospitals, C. T. Griffin, Rs. 12,750.

Registrar of Ceylon Medical College, A. J. Chalmers, Rs. 9,000.
Director Bacteriological Institute, A. Castellani, Rs. 9,000.
Public Analyst, K. C. Browning, Rs. 6,847.
Professor of Physics, W. S. Templeton, M.A., B.Sc., 400l.
Professor of Chemistry, vacant, 400l.

Provincial Surgeons:

G. P. Schokman, Rs. 8,500.
J. Craib, Rs. 8,500.
F. Oorloff, Rs. 8,500.
J. H. Ebell, Rs. 8,500.
F. G. Spittel, Rs. 6,960.
O. Johnson, Rs. 6,640.
G. S. van Rooyen, Rs. 6,446.
J. W. de Hoedt, Rs. 6,394.
C. B. Lourens, Rs. 6,344.

Medical Superintendent, Lunatic Asylum, J. B. Spence, Rs. 11,250.
Surgeon in charge of the General Hospital, T. F. Garvin, Rs. 9,000.

1st Grade Medical Officer:

H. M. Fernando, Rs. 5,400; E. Modder, Rs. 5,400; S. Hallock, Rs. 5,400; W. E. Leembruggen, Rs. 5,400; C. Heynsberg, Rs. 5,400; E. de Kreuter, Rs. 5,400; M. Sinnetamby, Rs. 5,400; S. L. Anthoniou, Rs. 5,040; H. Huybertsz, Rs. 4,680; W. Margenout, Rs. 4,680; Allard de Saram, Rs. 4,680; F. Vethecan, Rs. 4,680; L. Bronier, Rs. 4,680; F. Grenier, Rs. 4,680; A. Kalemberg, Rs. 4,680; H. Bawa, Rs. 4,680; T. Ohlinus, Rs. 4,680; C. de Vos, Rs. 4,680; A. Raja Singhram, Rs. 4,200; F. Folnander, Rs. 4,080; J. W. S. Attygalle, Rs. 4,080; W. Wijeyosekoon, Rs. 4,080; T. S. Wyasinghe, Rs. 4,050; J. C. Cooke, Rs. 3,969; A. Rodic, Rs. 3,969; R. Pestonjee, Rs. 3,957; R. F. Jayetikeke, Rs. 3,858; L. A. E. de Filwa, Rs. 3,772.

Lady Doctor, Mrs. Fysh, Rs. 5,525.

36 Medical Officers 2nd Grade, Rs. 1,800 to Rs. 3,000.
56 Medical Officers 3rd Grade, Rs. 1,200 to Rs. 1,800.

Veterinary Department.

Veterinary Surgeon, G. W. Sturgess, Rs. 7,312-50

Electrical Department.

Consulting Electrical Engineer, A. S. Barnard, Rs. 11,865.

Mines.

Inspector of Mines, T. G. Hunter, 560l.

Factories.

Inspector of Factories, Noel Woodhouse, Rs. 3,000.

Police.

Inspector-General of Police, C. E. Longden, Rs. 15,000.
Superintendents, E. B. Alexander, Rs. 9,000; C. L. Tranchell, 500l.; F. G. Tyrrell, 500l.; H. Thornhill, 450l.; H. L. Dowbiggin, 425l.; T. P. Attygalle, 425l.

Assistant Superintendents, J. P. Armstrong, J. S. Bowes, J. H. Daniel, G. F. Forrest, C. Godfrey, A. Gottelier, A. P. Boone, T. A. Hodson, D. V. Altendorff, W. Ludovici, 350l. each.

Prisons.

Inspector-General of Prisons and Superintendent of the Colombo Convict Establishments, Major A. W. de Wilton, 1,200l.
CEYLON—CYPRUS.

1st Assistant Superintendent of Prisons, H. Hann, Rs. 450l. to 500l.
2nd Ditto, W. Phillips, 350l. to 450l.
3rd Ditto, W. G. Martin, 250l. to 300l.

Government Stores Department.
Controller of Government Stores, F. W. Vane, Rs. 9,562-50.
Assistant Storekeeper and Accountant, W. A. Taylor, Rs. 4,500 to Rs. 6,000.

Railway Department.
(Offices, Colombo).
General Manager, G. P. Greene, Rs. 21,000.
Engineer, Way and Works, A. Paton Gray, Rs. 10,125.
Assistant Engineer, ditto, D. McMillan, Rs. 8,250.
Resident Engineer, ditto, Northern District, J. R. Todd, Rs. 6,375.
District Engineer, ditto, Upper District, G. E. Hooper, 300l.
District Engineer, ditto, Lower District, H. T. Cartwright, 325l.
Locomotive Engineer, H. G. Unsworth, 1,000l.
Assistant Locomotive Engineer, N. J. Price, Rs. 6,750.
District Locomotive Superintendent, Lower District, A. W. Dennis, 300l.
District Locomotive Superintendent, Upper District, E. W. Head, 325l.
District Locomotive Superintendent, Northern District, A. Carter, 325l.
Traffic Superintendent, T. A. Wylie, Rs. 10,687-50.
Assistant Traffic Superintendent, W. L. Byrde, Rs. 5,625.
District Assistant Traffic Superintendent, Lower District, H. O. Taylor, Rs. 4,500.
District do., Upper District, J. Howison, Rs. 6,000.
District do., Kandy District, W. L. Friar, Rs. 4,500.
District do., Northern District, J. J. P. Felix, Rs. 4,500.
Assistant General Manager and Accountant, E. H. Wade, Rs. 7,875.
Assistant Accountant, W. C. Davey, Rs. 6,000.
Railway Storekeeper, J. E. Hancocks, Rs. 5,000.

Ecclesiastical.
Church of England.—The Right Rev. E. A. Copelstone, Bishop of Colombo.
Registrar of the Diocese, R. H. Morgan, Rs. 1,000.
Chaplain, Rev. C. Koch, Colombo, Rs. 6,000.
Presbyterian Church.—Rev. E. S. Russell, Kandy.
Rev. D. Tweed, B.A., and Rev. J. A. Rowland, Wolfendahl Church, Colombo.
Roman Catholic Church.—The Most Rev. Dr. A. Coudert, O.M.I., Archbishop of Colombo.

Foreign Consuls.
America—W. Creevey, Consul at Colombo; E. L. Morey, Vice-Consul in Ceylon.
Austro-Hungary—C. O. Pohn, Consul, Colombo; C. P. Hayley, Consular Agent, Galle.
Belgium—A. Redemann, Consul.
Denmark—A. J. Sawer, Consul, Ceylon.
France—Em. Labussiere, Consul, Colombo.
German Empire—P. Freudenberg, Consul at Colombo.
Italy—C. O. Pohn.
Japan—C. E. H. Symons.
Netherlands—A. T. Schulze, Consul, Colombo.
Norway—E. B. Creasy, junr.; B. W. Leefe, Vice-Consul, Galle.
Persia—Mohammed Ismail Mohammed Ali, Vice-Consul.
Portugal—M. T. Finlay, Consul, Colombo; C. Morrison (acting).
Russia—Vice-Consul, A. Bonlach.
Siam—S. D. Young.
Spain—M. T. Finlay, Vice-Consul; C. Morrison (acting).
Sweden—Sir Stanley Bois, Kt., Colombo (acting); B. W. Leefe, Vice-Consul, Galle.
Turkey—M. Macan Markar Effendi, Consul, Colombo; Hadji Ibrahim Didi Ben Hadji Ali Didi, Consul, Galle.

Military and Naval Officers.
Brigadier-General, R. C. B. Lawrence.
Aide-de-Camp, Lieutenant B. A. Francis, R.G.A. C.S.O., D.A.A. and Q.M.G., Major C. Ballard, Norfolk Regiment.
Naval Intelligence Officer, Capt. Pryce Peacock, R.M.L.I.
Commanding Royal Artillery, Lieut.-Colonel J. R. B. Davidson.
Commanding Royal Engineers, Lieut.-Colonel L. Jones.
Officer Commanding Army Service Corps, Ceylon, Major W. I. S. McCormick.
Senior Ordnance Store Officer, Capt. O. B. Harter.
District Paymaster and 1st Class Assistant Accountant, Mr. H. G. Dunheir.
Senior Medical Officer, Lieut.-Colonel G. H. Sylvester.

