SOUTH AFRICA.

High Commission.

The office of High Commissioner in and for South Africa was created by Letters Patent in 1878. In 1879 a second High Commissioner was appointed, to whom was assigned South-Eastern Africa, including Zululand and Amatongaland; but this arrangement ceased in 1881, when a Special Commissioner for Zulu affairs was appointed, who was also Governor of Natal (which now includes Zululand and Amatongaland). The High Commissioner for South Africa, who, under the Commission of 1889, was the officer for the time being administering the Government of the Cape, represents the Crown in all matters occurring in South Africa beyond the limits of the Colonies properly so called. He was, till 1899, charged with the conduct of British relations with the South African Republic (Transvaal) and the Orange Free State, as well as those with native states and tribes outside the Colonies of the Cape and Natal, including Swaziland, which was administered by the Government of the South African Republic under the Convention of 1894.

The High Commissioner is Governor of Basutoland, supervises the affairs of the Bechuanaland Protectorate and of Swaziland, and exercises the control provided by Order in Council over the Administration of the British South Africa Company in Southern and in North-Western Rhodesia. The Southern Rhodesia Order in Council, 1898, provides for a control by the High Commissioner over legislation, important appointments, and Native affairs in Rhodesia, and for the appointment of an Imperial Resident Commissioner, who is the subordinate of the High Commissioner, and also Commandant of the armed forces, the control of which was taken away from the Company after Dr. Jameson's raid into the Transvaal, and placed under the High Commissioner. The High Commissioner is empowered to invite conferences of representatives of the South African Colonial Governments to meet for the discussion of matters of common interest. The office of High Commissioner, which was formerly held by the Governor of Cape Colony, was, by a Commission dated Oct. 6th, 1900, vested in Lord Milner, and by a similar Commission, dated March 15th, 1905, in Lord Selborne, who is also Governor of the Transvaal and the Orange River Colony. An Order in Council, dated May 20, 1903 (amended by subsequent Orders in Council of 1904 (2), 1905, and 1906), established an Inter-Colonial Council to deal with the administration of the Central South African Railways, the expenditure on the South African Constabulary, and certain other expenses common to the Transvaal and Orange River Colony. The Council consists of the High Commissioner and Governor (President), the Governor of the Orange River Colony, the Inspector-General of the South African Constabulary, with nineteen other members representing the Governments and Legislatures of the two Colonies, and three others, of whom two are nominated by the Secretary of State and one by the High Commissioner and Governor. For the proceedings of the Council see "Transvaal." The Council has appointed a Railway Committee, which sits weekly at Johannesburg.

High Commissioner and Staff.

(Salaries paid from Imperial Funds.)

High Commissioner, The Earl of Selborne, G.C.M.G., 3,000l. (see also under "Transvaal.")
Imperial Secretary and Accountant, C. H. Rodwell, 1,000l., and 200l. local allowance.

Assistant Imperial Secretary, Captain H. W. Hamilton-Fowle, 800l.

Clerical Staff, H. J. Roberts (Assistant Accountant), C. L. O'B. Dutton (Chief Clerk), Miss Hanbury, E. Cohen, J. Moore, E. G. Dutton, Miss Dickson, Miss Honey, Miss Dougherty, Miss Roberts.

The "South African Customs Statistical Bureau" is an office situated at Cape Town, the members of which are drawn from the four Colonies and Rhodesia.

Principal, A. J. S. Lewis, 850l.

Customs Union Clerk, N. D. Forbes, 600l.

Import and Export Clerk, E. H. S. Sherson, 600l.

Clerk and Accountant, F. Fisher, 450l.

Clerk and Examiner of Accounts, A. G. Ashley, 400l.

And 61 Clerks, 50l. to 375l.

List of Members of the Inter-Colonial Council of the Transvaal and Orange River Colony.

President, His Excellency the High Commissioner and Governor (The Earl of Selborne, P.C., G.C.M.G.).

His Excellency the Governor of the Orange River Colony (Sir Hamilton Goold-Adams, K.C.M.G., C.B.).

The Inspector-General of the South African Constabulary (Colonel R. S. Curtis, D.S.O., R.E.).

H. C. Hull, Esq., Colonial Treasurer of the Transvaal, Treasurer to the Inter-Colonial Council and Chairman of the Railway Committee.

J. C. Smuts, Esq., Colonial Secretary of the Transvaal.

(Other appointments to be made after the formation of a Government in the Orange River Colony.)

T. Brain, Esq. J. W. S. Langerman, Esq.

S. W. Burger, Esq. J. W. Quinn, Esq.

W. Burns-Thomson, Esq. T. M. Cullinan, Esq.

H. Solomon, Esq.

Sir George Farrar, D.S.O. Sir Percy Fitzpatrick.

B. J. S. Wessels, Esq.

Sir J. G. Fraser.

P. Whiteside, Esq.

R. Goldmann, Esq. W. J. Wybergh, Esq.

A. Johnston, Esq.

Secretary, The Hon. R. H. Brand, 1,000l.

Assistant Secretary, P. H. Kerr, Esq., 800l.

Auditor to the Inter-Colonial Council, C. P. Isaac, Esq., 1,475l.

Railway Committee of the Inter-Colonial Council.

Chairman, The Hon. H. C. Hull, M.L.A. (Colonial Treasurer of the Transvaal and Treasurer to the Inter-Colonial Council).

The Hon. J. C. Smuts, M.L.A. (Colonial Secretary of the Transvaal).

R. Goldmann, Esq., M.L.A.

A. Johnston, Esq., M.L.A.

W. Wybergh, Esq., M.L.A.

Thos. Brain, Esq.

The following are the Chief Officers of the Railway Administration:

General Manager, T. R. Price, Esq., C.M.G.

Chief Engineer, B. P. Wall, Esq.

Chief Traffic Manager, W. W. Hoy, Esq.

Chief Locomotive Superintendent, I. S. Smart, Esq.

Chief Accountant, T. B. Brooke, Esq.

Acting Chief Railway Storekeeper, S. Barker, Esq.

