**TRANSVAAL**

Situation and Area.

The Transvaal lies to the north of the Orange River Colony and to the south of Rhodesia, being bounded on the west by the Bechuanaland Protectorate, and to the east chiefly by the Portuguese possessions, but touching Natal at the south-east corner. Its limits stretch from 28°40' to 22°10' E. degrees of latitude and between 24°40' and 32°10' E. in longitude.

Its area is 111,196 square miles, with a population, according to the census of 17th April, 1904, of 1,269,951, of whom 297,277 are whites, 937,127 aboriginal natives, and 35,547 other coloured races. The greater part lies high, seldom less than 4,000 feet above the sea. The climate is healthy, except in the lower country, to the north and east, which is hot and often feverish. The winter is the dry, and the summer the wet, season. Heavy storms are frequent in summer.

History.

The first European settlers in the Transvaal Territory were emigrant Cape farmers. The original destination of these emigrants was Natal, but upon the annexation of Natal to the English Crown most of them left the new district, and turning back over the Drakensberg went, some to the Orange River Territory, and others to the country beyond the Vaal. In 1848 British sovereignty was extended over the Orange River Territory, but no attempt was made by the British Government to exercise authority over its unwilling subjects beyond the Vaal, and in January, 1852, a treaty was made with them, containing a promise that they would not be interfered with in the management of their own affairs. This treaty is known as the Sand River Convention. The emigrants at the time formed three independent communities, which did not unite until 1858, when they adopted for themselves the name of the South African Republic. After fifteen years of somewhat chequered history, the people of the Transvaal elected as President the Rev. Thomas Burgers, a clergyman of the Dutch Reformed Church, from the Cape Colony, and high hopes were entertained by many for the future of the Republic under his guidance. These hopes were not fulfilled. Misfortunes followed one another in rapid succession, and only ended with the collapse of the Government, and the extinction of the Republic.

The President early conceived the project of a railway to be made from Delagoa Bay into the Republic, to carry its produce profitably to the sea; and to promote this project he visited Europe in 1875, concluded a treaty with Portugal, and essayed to launch a loan of 300,000l., in Amsterdam, of which, however, only about 74,000l. were subscribed. This money he spent in buying plant for the proposed railway. In the meantime the Provisional government of the Republic had drifted into a dispute with the Zulu King, Cetewayo, touching the boundary of Utrecht Province; and on his return the President himself engaged, first in a dispute with, and then in actual military operations against, Sikukuni, a Bechuana chief, living on the north-east of the Republic, whose country was claimed under an ambiguous and not very intelligible treaty in the Dutch language, to which some Boers had obtained the assent of Sikukuni's father in the year 1857. The operations against Sikukuni, which were upon a large scale,
looking to the resources of the Republic, and were directed in person by the President, ended in failure. The Republican field army melted away; a guerilla war, however, was continued by a small mercenary force, until a peace was concluded early in 1877. In the meantime the defeat of the Boers by an insignificant tribe of an unwarlike branch of the native race, and their inability to repair the disaster, were producing alarming excitement in the native mind, and the peace of South Africa being deemed to be in evident danger, Her Majesty's Government despatched Sir Theophilus Shepstone, who happened to be in London at the time, to South Africa, as a Special Commissioner from Her Majesty, to watch events, and take such action as might be necessary to secure the general peace. When Sir Theophilus Shepstone arrived in the Transvaal, he considered on a review of all the circumstances that no other course was open to him than to proclaim the Queen's sovereignty. This he did on the 12th of April by a proclamation which was approved by Her Majesty's Government.

The annexation of the Transvaal was effected without the aid of physical force. Sir T. Shepstone at the time had with him but a few mounted policemen; and Her Majesty's troops did not arrive in the province for some time after the English Government had been set up, with the apparent acquiescence of the public. But subsequently hostile feelings towards the annexation were widely manifested, and two deputations were sent to England after annexation, to represent those who were opposed to that measure and desired a withdrawal of the British Government. In each case the answer of Her late Majesty's Government was a decided negative.

In December, 1880, a majority of the Boers took up arms against the Government, and hoisted the flag of the South African Republic at Heidelberg. The towns held by Imperial troops were immediately invested, and a detachment of the 94th Regiment, which was being withdrawn from Lydenburg to Pretoria, to strengthen the force at headquarters, was surprised, and after suffering very heavy loss, compelled to surrender.

The towns, however, held out, and Sir G. Pomeroy Colley, without waiting for reinforcements, collected the small force at his disposal and advanced from Maritzburg to relieve them. A large force of Boers, determined to oppose his entry into the Transvaal, took possession of Laing's Nek, the path by which he had to cross the Drakensberg range.

On the 28th of January the English troops made a gallant attempt to carry this pass by storm, but they were driven back with heavy loss. The Boers followed up this advantage by cutting off Sir G. Colley's communications with Newcastle, with a view to prevent his receiving the reinforcements which had been sent out, and were now on the way up. To re-open his communications he crossed the Ingogo River on the morning of the 8th of February, and was immediately attacked by the Boers. The action continued all day; at nightfall the Boers drew off, and the English forces returned to their camp.

In the meantime strenuous efforts were being made by President Brand, of the Orange Free State, to bring about an understanding, and in reply to the appeal which he made to Her Majesty's Government, they declared that if the Boers would desist from armed opposition to the English troops, a scheme would be framed for the permanent friendly settlement of all difficulties. This message was forwarded to the Boers on the 21st of February, in a letter addressed to Mr. Paul Kruger, one of their leaders, by General Colley, and an answer was required within forty-eight hours. Mr. Kruger was away at Rustenburg, and the letter was sent unopened to the headquarters of the Boers at Heidelberg. Dr. Bok, who was acting as State Secretary, sent it on to Mr. Kruger, and replied to General Colley that no definite answer could be given to the message from Her Majesty's Government until Mr. Kruger's views were known. Dr. Bok's message did not reach the camp at Laing's Nek till the 1st of March. On the night of the 26th of February, General Colley, having received no reply to his message, moved out with three hundred and fifty men, and took possession of the summit of the Majuba Mountain, a spur of the Drakensberg, commanding the Boer camp at Laing's Nek. The Boers attacked the mountain next day, and carried it by storm, with little loss, while only about one-fifth of the defenders escaped, the rest being killed, wounded, or taken prisoners. Sir G. Pomeroy Colley himself was killed by a bullet through his forehead.

The command now devolved on Sir E. Wood, who was at Pietermaritzburg organising the advance of the reinforcements, and, at the instance of President Brand, an interview took place on the 6th of March between him and General Joubert, who was in command of the Boers at Laing's Nek, which resulted in the conclusion of an armistice, with a view to allow time for the receipt of Mr. Kruger's reply to the message of Her Majesty's Government. Mr. Kruger's answer, written on the 28th of February at Heidelberg, was received by Sir E. Wood on the 7th of March, and it was considered satisfactory. A preliminary peace agreement was signed on the 21st March by Sir E. Wood and the representatives of the Boers. The terms of the agreement were that Her Majesty's Government should allow the Transvaal self-government as regards its own interior affairs; that the control and management of the foreign relations of the State should be reserved to Her Majesty as suzerain; and that the Government of the Transvaal should recognise a British Resident. The functions of this officer, and the provisions for the protection of the interests of the native population, were to be determined by Her Majesty's Government on the recommendation of a Royal Commission.

The Commissioners who were appointed to consider the whole question of the settlement of the affairs of the Transvaal were Sir H. Robinson, Sir E. Wood, and Sir J. H. de Villiers, Chief Justice of the Cape Colony; and President Brand was invited to be present at the conferences of the Commissioners with the representatives of the Boers, as a person friendly to both parties. The sittings of the Commission were opened on the 28th of April at Newcastle, from which they were afterwards transferred to Pretoria. The recommendations of the Commission were submitted in detail to Her Majesty's Government, and in the result a Convention was framed embodying the terms of the peace agreement, assigning the boundaries of the State, defining the functions of the Resident as analogous to those of a consul-general and charge d' affaires, and conferring upon him extensive powers for the protection of the interests of the natives in the Transvaal. He also formed the medium of communication between the Government of the Transvaal and the native States on its borders. Stipulations were made for the repayment of the sums advanced by Her Majesty's Government in aid of the expenses of the
Transvaal during the occupation; and a sub-
commission, composed of the two judges of the
High Court and Mr. Hudson, the British Resident,
was appointed to consider claims for compensation
for losses sustained during the hostilities.

The Convention was signed on the 3rd of
August, and on the 8th of that month the Govern-
ment was handed over to the representatives
of the Boers. The Convention was finally ratified
by a duly-elected Volksraad on the 25th of October.

The Transvaal State, however, showed little
disposition to acquiesce in the Pretoria Conven-
tion, and constant trouble occurred on the border,
especially on the South-Western border, where the
Bechuanaland tribes suffered severely from the
incursions of freebooters from the Transvaal,
which the Transvaal Government entirely failed
to restrain, and, indeed, endeavoured to turn to
account by acquiring fresh territory in violation
of the Convention. In 1884, however, Her
Majesty's Government yielded to representa-
tions of the Transvaal Government and granted
a new Convention, which was signed in London
on 27th February, 1884. By it fresh articles
were substituted for the articles of the Pretoria
Convention, a point which, as the reservation of
suzerainty and grant of self-government to the
Transvaal State both occur in the "preamble," or
introduction of the Pretoria Convention, became
of importance in the subsequent controversy
regarding the status of the South African Repub-
lic, as the Transvaal State was now called.

The new Convention provided for the extension
of the boundary of the Republic on the south-
west, and abolished the British Resident and all
direct control over native affairs, the Republic
being bound, however, by Articles VIII. and XIX.
to abstain from slavery and fulfil certain pledges
made to the natives in 1881.

Article IV. ran as follows:—"The South
African Republic will conclude no treaty or engage-
ment with any State or nation other than the
Orange Free State, nor with any native tribe to the
eastward or westward of the Republic, until the
same has been approved by Her Majesty the
Queen.

"Such approval shall be considered to have been
granted if Her Majesty's Government shall not,
within six months after receiving a copy of such
treaty (which shall be delivered to them imme-
diately upon its completion), have notified that
the conclusion of such treaty is in conflict with the
interests of Great Britain or of any of Her Majesty's
possessions in South Africa."

Article XIV. said that "all persons, other than
natives, conforming themselves to the laws of the
South African Republic (a) will have full liberty,
with their families, to enter, travel, or reside in
any part of the South African Republic; (b) they
will be entitled to hire or possess houses, manufac-
tories, warehouses, shops, and premises; (c) they
may carry on their commerce either in person or
by any agents whom they may think fit to employ;
(d) they will not be subject, in respect of their
persons or property, or in respect of their commerce
or industry, to any taxes, whether general or local,
other than those which are or may be imposed upon
citizens of the said Republic."

The concession of a larger degree of indepen-
dence did not, however, prevent further trouble in
Bechuanaland, while in Zululand adventurers
from the Transvaal succeeded, by interfering in
native disputes, in acquiring a large part of the
country, where they formed a new State called the
"New Republic, the incorporation of which in the
South African Republic was ultimately allowed by
Her Majesty's Government in 1888. A trek to the
north into Rhodesia in 1890 was only prevented
with difficulty; while the efforts of the Govern-
ment of the Republic to extend its influence in
Swaziland resulted in 1894 in the recognition by
Her Majesty's Government of its protectorate over
that country.

The Transvaal, which had been bankrupt in
1877, when it was annexed, remained for some
years after the retrocession in great financial
difficulties. From these, however, it was not only
saved, but raised to an unprecedented height of
prosperity by the development by immigrants,
chiefly British subjects, of the gold industry on
the Witwatersrand, which began to grow soon
after the signature of the London Convention.
The progress achieved is clearly reflected in the
fact that the revenue of the Republic, which, in
1885, amounted to 177,877l., had risen in 1890 to
1,229,061l., reaching 3,329,958l. in 1898. Unfortu-
nately, the Republic, instead of welcoming the new-
comers, who had thus increased the property of the
country, adopted a repressive policy towards
them. From 1890 to 1894 legislation was passed
restricting the grant of the franchise, which at the
time of the Pretoria Convention had been open to
all settlers after a year's residence, and since 1892,
after five years' residence, until it became
practically unattainable to the ordinary immigrant.
At the same time the abuses of the Administration,
among which the Uitlander population especially
reckoned the grant of concessions and monopolies,
and against one of which, the dynamite monopoly,
Her Majesty's Government entered in 1893 a
special protest, created much discontent among
the new population.

In 1894 the discontent assumed a threatening
aspect, owing to the commandeering of British
subjects to fight in a native war, but this ques-
tion was arranged by the High Commissioner,
Lord Loch, who visited Pretoria at that time;
other questions, however, remained unsettled.
In 1895 the action of the Government of the South
African Republic in closing the drifts by which
trade entered the Transvaal from the Cape,
brought the Republic to the verge of war with
Great Britain. Towards the end of 1895, a revolu-
tionary movement was set on foot in Johannes-
burg. On the 23rd of December, however,
Dr. Jameson crossed the border of the Transvaal
on his disastrous raid, and was defeated, and
surrendered at Krugersdorp on the 2nd January,
1896. The High Commissioner, Sir Hercules
Robinson, hurried to Pretoria, and by his inter-
mediation Johannesburg laid down its arms.

President Kruger, at the time of the raid, had
issued Proclamations promising to consider the
redress of grievances, and laying down the prin-
ciple, "Forget and Forgive." Little result, how-
ever, beyond the erection of an unsatisfactory
municipality, followed his promises of reform;
while the action of the Government of the
Republic in disregarding the London Convention
gave rise to questions with Her Majesty's Govern-
ment. In addition to infringing Art. IV., the
Republic passed in 1896 an Aliens' Immigration
Restriction Law, which Her Majesty's Govern-
ment contended was in violation of Art. XIV.,
and the law was repealed next year.

In 1897 the Government, in consequence of the
complaints of the mining industry, appointed a
commission of inquiry, whose report showed
clearly the existence of very serious maladministra-
tion. Little or no reform, however, resulted.
The dissatisfaction which the Uitlanders manifested with the treatment which they received was brought to a high pitch by the shooting of an Englishman named Edgar by a policeman at Johannesburg on the 18th of December, 1888, and the action of the authorities in the matter, followed by the acquittal of the accused, aroused great excitement on the Rand—and, indeed, throughout the English-speaking part of South Africa. A petition, signed by 21,000 British subjects, calling attention to the grievances of the Uitlanders, and asking for the protection of Her Majesty's Government, was addressed to the Queen in March, 1899.

The Government of the South African Republic at this time appeared to recognise the need for reform by proposing some slight alterations in the franchise law, but their negotiations, conducted with some of the leaders of the mining industry, broke down because the latter insisted that the Uitlander population generally must be consulted, and the Government repudiated responsibility for their negotiators. Her Majesty's Government, in a despatch dated 10th May, represented the grievances of the Uitlanders to the Government of the South African Republic, and urged that they should be redressed, proposing a conference between the High Commissioner and the President. Before, however, the despatch was presented, Sir A. Milner, on the invitation of the President of the Orange Free State, met President Kruger at Bloemfontein on the 31st of May, and proposed the grant of the franchise to the Uitlanders to relieve the situation. The proposals of the President were quite inadequate for the purpose of giving any substantial and immediate representation, and it being therefore useless, in Sir A. Milner's opinion, to discuss other outstanding questions, the Conference broke up on the 5th of June.

After successive proposals, and after Her Majesty's Government had asked that, if these proposals were to form any element in the settlement of differences between the two Governments, full particulars might be furnished, a franchise law, giving a seven years' retrospective franchise, was passed by the Volksraad without reference to Her Majesty's Government, and came into operation on 26th July. This law was an improvement on any previous proposal, but there was good ground for doubting whether it did not contain many provisions which would render it illusory in actual practice, and Her Majesty's Government, therefore, in a despatch of the 27th July, a summary of which was telegraphed on the same day to the High Commissioner, proposed a joint inquiry as to whether it would give "immediate and substantial representation." A note based on this proposal was communicated to the South African Republic on the 2nd August, but the Government of the Republic were extremely unwilling to accept the joint inquiry, and an alternative proposal for a five years' franchise was made in August by the State Attorney, Mr. Smuts, to Her Majesty's Agent, Mr. Greene, on three assumptions. These assumptions were (1) that Her Majesty's Government would not in future interfere in the internal affairs of the Republic; (2) that Her Majesty's Government would not insist further upon the assertion of suzerainty, the controversy being allowed tacitly to drop (this point had acquired special importance since the South African Republic, on the 9th May, had claimed the status of a sovereign international state); (3) that arbitration without a foreign element should be conceded.

The proposal was put forward in writing by the Republic in notes dated the 19th and 21st August, and the three "assumptions" were put forward as express conditions. To these notes Her Majesty's Government replied, on the 28th August, that they could not bind themselves never to intervene again, but they expressed the hope that further intervention would be unnecessary if the franchise was granted. As to suzerainty they referred to their despatch in which they had intimated their refusal to continue the discussion; and as to arbitration, they agreed to discuss the form of a tribunal. The South African Republic, thereupon, in notes of the 1st and 2nd September, withdrew their five years' offer, and officially declared their objections to the joint inquiry, which they represented was an interference with the independence of the country. Her Majesty's Government then (8th September), being convinced by accumulating evidence of the unworkable character of the law which had been passed, while maintaining their position as regards interference and suzerainty, declared that they would be satisfied with a franchise on the five years' basis if shown by an inquiry, either unilateral or joint, not to be encumbered with impossible conditions. If this was acceded to they were ready to have a conference about arbitration, etc., but, failing acceptance, they would have to formulate their own proposals for a final settlement. To this the Government of the Republic replied by maintaining their withdrawal of the five years' franchise unless accepted with the conditions above stated, and called on Her Majesty's Government to revert to the proposal for a Joint Commission on the seven years' franchise. On the 22nd of September Her Majesty's Government repeated their views, and stated that their own proposals for a settlement would be formulated later.

After some correspondence between the President of the Orange Free State and the High Commissioner, in which the High Commissioner, as late as the 5th of October, said that any definite proposal would still be considered, the South African Republic, without waiting for Her Majesty's Government to formulate their proposals, handed to the British Agent an ultimatum, dated 9th October, requiring the instant withdrawal of British troops on the borders of the Republic, and the removal of all reinforcements which had arrived in South Africa since the 1st of June, and demanding an answer by five o'clock on the 11th of October. It was deemed impossible by Her Majesty's Government to discuss such a demand, and war broke out accordingly. The Orange Free State, in pursuance of a resolution passed on the 27th of September, threw in its lot with the Transvaal.

A great exodus from the Rand had begun some time before the actual outbreak of war, the Government of the Republic having been commandeering and making other preparations for war, and so much distress resulted from the crowding of thousands of homeless refugees into the British Colonies that relief funds were started in this country.

On the outbreak of war, the Boers immediately invaded British territory to the south-east and west of the Republics. The operations on the western side were chiefly concerned with the investment of Mafeking and Kimberley. Meantime the main body of the Boers invaded Natal under General Joubert. The first considerable engagement of the war occurred at Dundee on the 20th of October, where General Symons attacked and repulsed a Boer commando. On the 21st of October the British army at Ladysmith attacked a Boer commando at Elandslaagte, and inflicted a severe defeat. On the 30th Sir G. White made a reconnaissance from Ladysmith, and during the engagement which then took place two battalions
and a mountain battery were cut off and captured by the Boers. Ladysmith was then surrounded by the Boers and communication cut. On the 3rd of November Colenso was evacuated, and the garrison there fell back on Estcourt.

Meanwhile troops were on the way from England. The Governments of Canada and of all the Australian Colonies offered the services of contingents, and the offer was gratefully accepted; the despatch of troops from the different colonies was rapidly organised, and they left amidst enthusiastic demonstrations of loyalty. Offers of troops were also made by several of the Crown Colonies, and by the Federated Malay States, and contingents of mounted Volunteers were accepted from India and Ceylon.

As the troops from England arrived, a move forward was made in two directions. A Natal relief column prepared for an advance to the relief of Ladysmith. Sir Redvers Buller, who was in chief command of the British forces, left Capetown for Natal to direct the general plan of advance, and by the end of November the British forces had arrived near Colenso. On December 15th, Sir R. Buller made an attack on the enemy and attempted to cross the Tugela at Colenso, but he had to retire to his camp at Chieveley after suffering severely in casualties and abandoning a large number of guns. On the western side a force under Lord Methuen pushed up along the railway to the relief of Kimberley. On the 23rd of November he attacked the Boers at Belmont and dispersed them. Two days later he pushed aside a further force at Emslin, and on the 28th November he forced a large body of the enemy to evacuate a strong position at the Molder River. He was then delayed for some days whilst the bridge over the Molder was being reconstructed and reinforcements and stores sent up to him. On December 11th he attacked the enemy at Magersfontein, but was unsuccessful in carrying the position, and fell back on the Molder River. The losses in the engagement were heavy.

The northern borders of Cape Colony, where there were a few British garrisons, were invaded by parties of Orange Free State Boers, with the apparent object of gaining recruits from the Dutch residents in the Colony, in which they were partially successful. General Gatacre, on his arrival, took command of the British troops in these districts. His first important action took place on the 10th of December, when he was unsuccessful in a night attack on Stormberg, having to retire with the loss of over 600 men captured.

On the receipt of news of the capture of the battalions at Ladysmith orders were at once given for the despatch of further reinforcements from England. The repulses experienced early in December made it necessary to take further measures. On the 7th of the month it was announced that Field-Marshal Lord Roberts would go out to take supreme command at the Cape, leaving Sir R. Buller to confine his attention to the operations in Natal; Lord Kitchener was appointed Chief of the Staff to Lord Roberts. Large reinforcements were ordered out from England, and further help offered by Australia and Canada was gladly accepted.

Lord Roberts reached Molder River on 9th February, 1900, and General French relieved Kimberley on the 16th. General Cronje was caught up and surrendered with all his force on the 27th. Ladysmith, after two unsuccessful attempts, was relieved by General Buller on the 28th of the same month. Lord Roberts reached Bloemfontein on the 13th of March, and Pretoria on the 5th of June.

The Transvaal was annexed to Her Majesty's dominions by a Proclamation which Lord Roberts issued at Belfast on the 1st of September, 1900, Lord Roberts becoming Administrator, in which office he was succeeded on his departure from South Africa at the end of the year by Sir Alfred Milner. The intention of Her Majesty's Government with regard to the future Constitution of the Colony was outlined in Mr Chamberlain's speech in the House of Commons on December 7th, 1900. Sir A. Milner (now Lord Milner) was selected for the post of Governor of the Transvaal and of the Orange River Colony, an office which he combined with that of High Commissioner for South Africa.

The Transvaal Colony remained the scene of military operations till May, 1902, when on the last day of that month Articles of Peace were signed on behalf of the Governments concerned. The document was as follows:

"Army Headquarters, South Africa.

General Lord Kitchener of Khartoum, Commanding-in-Chief, and His Excellency Lord Milner, High Commissioner, on behalf of the British Government, and Messrs. S. W. Burger, F. W. Reitz, Louis Botha, J. H. De la Rey, L. J. Meyer, and J. C. Krogh, acting as the Government of the South African Republic, and Messrs. C. R. de Wet, W. J. C. Brehmer, J. B. M. Hertzog, and C. H. Olivier, acting as the Government of the Orange Free State, on behalf of their respective burghers, desirous to terminate the present hostilities, agree on the following Articles:

1. The Burgher forces in the field will forthwith lay down their arms, handing over all guns, rifles, and munitions of war, in their possession or under their control, and desist from any further resistance to the authority of His Majesty King Edward VII., whom they recognise as their lawful Sovereign.

The manner and details of this surrender will be arranged between Lord Kitchener and Commandant-General Botha, Assistant Commandant-General De la Rey, and Chief Commandant De Wet.

2. Burghers in the field outside the limits of the Transvaal and Orange River Colony, and all prisoners of war at present outside South Africa who are burghers, will, on duly declaring their acceptance of the position of subjects of His Majesty King Edward VII., be gradually brought back to their homes as soon as transport can be provided and their means of subsistence ensured.

3. The burghers so surrendering or so returning will not be deprived of their personal liberty or their property.

4. No proceedings, civil or criminal, will be taken against any of the burghers so surrendering or so returning for any acts in connection with the prosecution of the war. The benefit of this Clause will not extend to certain acts contrary to the usage of war which have been notified by the Commander-in-Chief to the Boer Generals, and which shall be tried by court-martial immediately after the close of hostilities.

5. The Dutch language will be taught in public schools in the Transvaal and the Orange River Colony where the parents of the children desire it, and will be allowed in courts of law when necessary for the better and more effectual administration of justice."
6. The possession of rifles will be allowed in the Transvaal and Orange River Colony to persons requiring them for their protection, on taking out a license according to law.

7. Military administration in the Transvaal and Orange River Colony will at the earliest possible date be succeeded by civil government, and, as soon as circumstances permit, representative institutions, leading up to self-government, will be introduced.

8. The question of granting the franchise to natives will not be decided until after the introduction of self-government.

9. No special tax will be imposed on landed property in the Transvaal and Orange River Colony to defray the expenses of the war.

10. As soon as conditions permit, a Commission, on which the local inhabitants will be represented, will be appointed in each district of the Transvaal and Orange River Colony, under the presidency of a magistrate or other official, for the purpose of assisting the restoration of the people to their homes and supplying those who, owing to war losses, are unable to provide for themselves, with food, shelter, and the necessary amount of seed, stock, implements, etc., indispensable to the resumption of their normal conditions.

His Majesty's Government will place at the disposal of these Commissions a sum of three million pounds sterling for the above purposes, and will allow all notes, issued under Law No. 1 of 1900, of the Government of the South African Republic, and all receipts given by the officers in the field of the late Republics or under their orders, to be presented to a Judicial Commission which will be appointed by the Government, and if such notes and receipts are found by this Commission to have been duly issued in return for valuable consideration, they will be received by the first-named Commissions as evidence of war losses suffered by the persons to whom they were originally given. In addition to the above-named free grant of three million pounds, His Majesty's Government will be prepared to make advances as loans for the same purpose, free of interest for two years, and afterwards repayable over a period of years, with three per cent. interest. No foreigner or rebel will be entitled to the benefit of this Clause.

Signed at Pretoria this thirty-first day of May in the year of Our Lord one thousand nine hundred and two.

S. W. BURGER. KITCHENER OF KHARTOUM.
F. W. REITZ. MILNER."
LOUIS BOETHA.
J. H. DE LA Rey.
L. J. MEYER.
J. C. KROGH.
C. R. DE WET.
J. B. M. HERZOG.
W. J. C. BREEDEN.
C. H. OLIVIER.

Prior to this, the Civil Administration was partly organised on a provisional basis, resident magistrates and district Commissioners having been appointed in many districts. Numerous proclamations were issued to provide for administrative requirements, and amongst those issued in 1902 may be mentioned those making provision for the acquisition of lands for public purposes (Proclamation 7), placing subsidised schools under the control of the Director of Education (9), amending the law relating to the registration of deeds (10), levying a tax of 10 per cent. on the annual net produce of gold-bearing produce (34), regulating the registration of mining rights (35), amended by Ordinance 6 of 1902), and several relating to the administration of justice. On the 21st of June, 1902, Letters Patent were published constituting the Government of the Transvaal, and providing for an Executive and a Legislative Council, the members of which are to be appointed by the Crown; the subsequent legislation being accordingly by Ordinance.

On the 31st March, 1905, Letters Patent were passed providing for the constitution of a Legislative Assembly to consist of the Lieut.-Governor and not less than six or more than nine official members, and (provisionally) not less than thirty or more than thirty-five elected members. But in December, 1906, this Constitution was revoked and a new one substituted.

Constitution.

On December 6th, 1906, Letters Patent were issued conferring full responsible government upon the Transvaal. The new legislature consists of two chambers. The Legislative Council contains 15 members, who will in the first instance be nominated by the Governor for a period of five years. Appointments to fill any vacancies which may occur will be made by the Governor in Council, by whom also the President will be appointed. But it will be lawful at any time after four years from the date of the first meeting of the Council for the Legislature to pass a law providing for the election of members of the Legislative Council. Members of the Council must be of the age of 30 years or upwards, must have resided in the Colony for three years, and must possess the electoral qualification. The Legislative Assembly contains 69 members, of whom 34 represent the Witwatersrand area. Members are returned throughout the Transvaal by single-member constituencies, but the old magisterial districts are retained as separate units, and sub-divided where a district is entitled to more than one member, the divisions following as far as possible the boundaries of the old field countries or magisterial wards. Every white male British subject is entitled to be registered as a voter if he has resided in the Transvaal for six months, either immediately before the framing of the register or within three years, in case of temporary absence during those six months. The qualification for membership of the Assembly is the same as the voter's qualification. There will be an automatic re-distribution of seats, on a voters' basis, at the end of every four years. The Legislative Assembly and any elected Legislative Council will be dissolved at the end of five years, or earlier at the option of the Governor. The Speaker of the Assembly will be elected by the members, and will on election vacate his seat. The language of debate in the Legislature will be either English or Dutch, the language of record being English, while copies of votes and proceedings, and of all proposed laws, will be printed in both languages, in accordance with the practice observed in Cape Colony. It is provided that, in the event of disagreement between the Legislative Council and the Legislative Assembly, the Governor may convene a joint sitting of the members of both Houses, presided over by the Speaker of the Assembly, when the matter at issue shall be decided by an absolute majority of
the members of both Houses. Members of the Legislature will receive as payment for their services a fixed sum of £150 and £2 a day for each day of attendance up to a maximum of £300 in any one year. The Legislature will have power to alter or repeal any of the provisions of the Letters Patent, but any bill effecting such repeal or alteration must be reserved.

A special clause in the Letters Patent provides that whereas it is His Majesty's will and pleasure that all persons within his dominions shall be free from any conditions of employment or residence of a servile character, the Governor shall reserve any law providing for the introduction into the Colony under contract, indenture or licence of labourers from places outside South Africa.

Another clause provides for the termination of the system of labour deriving effect from "The Labour Importation Ordinance, 1904," and all Ordinances amending the same, at the end of one year from the date of the first meeting of the Legislature. Under this clause no licence can be issued for the introduction of labourers into the Colony under the Ordinance, and no contract can be renewed under its authority after the commencement of the Letters Patent. The Legislature of the Colony may accelerate the determination of the said system of labour or regulate it subject to the conditions of the Letters Patent, and may provide for all necessary matters and for carrying into effect the declarations and enactments of the Letters Patent in that behalf.

Provision is made in regard to the interests of the natives by enacting that no lands which have been or may hereafter be set aside for their occupation shall be alienated or diverted from this purpose, except by legislation which will be liable to be reserved for the signification of His Majesty's pleasure. The Governor will continue to exercise over all Chiefs and natives in the Colony the authority vested in him as paramount Chief, and the Governor in Council is empowered to convene an assembly of native Chiefs to enable the natives to make known their views on questions affecting their interests.

Special provision is made in the Letters Patent with regard to the Land Settlement scheme which was established during the period of Crown Colony government. The Governor is to appoint and control for five years a Land Board consisting of three members, which will be a body corporate, and will exercise the rights and duties conferred and imposed upon the Government of the Transvaal in respect of the existing settlers by any Law or Agreement.

To this Land Board will be transferred all lands and movable property held by existing settlers, and any sums approved by a Secretary of State out of moneys hereafter appropriated by the Inter-Colonial Council for Land Settlement purposes. The Government of the Colony may (subject to the consent of the Governor, and with the approval of the Secretary of State) come to an agreement with the Board for determining the functions of the Board at an earlier date.

The arrangement under which the Inter-Colonial Council has administered certain services common to the Transvaal and Orange River Colony will be liable to be terminated on the motion of either Colony. Either Government may give notice to the other after Responsible Government has been established in both Colonies, and the Inter-Colonial Council will cease to exist, or the particular service to which the notice relates will be terminated, after six months from the date of such notice. The apportionment of the assets and liabilities of the Council, unless an agreement is arrived at between the two Governments, will be referred to arbitration, or to the Privy Council if both Governments do not agree to arbitration.

Customs Union.

On 23rd March, 1903, a Customs Agreement was signed, under which the Transvaal and Southern Rhodesia entered the Customs Union, the result being that a common tariff was established for all the South African Colonies. All transit dues were abolished, and considerable reductions were made in through railway rates. The list of South African products which are carried over the railways at preferential rates—this constituting a second line of Protection—was reduced from 110 to 58 articles. A rebate is granted on articles manufactured in the United Kingdom of 25% of the duty in certain cases and of the whole duty in those cases where it is 2½ ad valorem (ironmongery, etc.) ; a similar rebate may be made to any British colony giving equivalent reciprocal privileges to the Union. This Union was superseded by a new Agreement in 1906, which provided for a general increase in the Customs duties. The Agreement maintained the principle of preference for imports from the United Kingdom and reciprocating Colonies, a rebate equal to the increase in the duties being granted on such imports.

Railways.

The Central South African Railways include the lines of the late Netherlands South African Railway, the late Orange Free State Government Railways, and the line known as the Pretoria-Pietersburg Railway, which formerly belonged to a London Company. On the 31st December, 1906, the length of open lines in the Transvaal and Orange River Colonies, including the line from Klerksdorp to Fourteen Streams (worked on behalf of the Klerkadorp-Fourteen Streams Railway Co.), was 2,159 miles, and 406 miles were under construction, viz.:

| Route                        | Miles |
|------------------------------|-------|
| Modderpoort-Bethlehem        | 104   |
| Krugersdorp-Zeerust           | 128   |
| Breyten-Ermelo               | 18    |
| Breyten-Machadodorp          | 54    |
| Bloemfontein-Kimberley       | 102   |
| **Total**                    | **406** |

At the end of 1906 the railway mileage opened and in working was approximately double that open in 1898. It is to be remembered that various railway projects were under construction and others under consideration when the war commenced, and the policy pursued has therefore been in consonance with the views held of late years by the older inhabitants of the two Colonies.

The first-class single fare from Cape Town to Pretoria is 9l. 7s. 8½d., and from Cape Town to Johannesburg 9l. 0s. 2½d., with free conveyance of 100 lbs. personal luggage; the second-class fares from Cape Town to Pretoria and Johannesburg are 6l. 19s. 9d. and 6l. 13s. 11½d., respectively, with a free allowance of 75 lbs. luggage.

The financial administration of the railways is under the control of the Railway Committee of the Inter-Colonial Council. (See under "South Africa.")
Local Government.

Municipal Government was established throughout the Colony by Ordinance enacted in 1903, as extended and amended in 1904, 1905 and 1906. These Ordinances give Local Authorities very extensive powers—interference by the Government being practically limited to powers of audit, the limitation of local loans, the approval of schemes for municipal works and the alienation of municipal property. The basis of municipal qualification is the ownership of real property to the value of £100, or the tenancy of premises of the value of £300, or annual value of £24, but the franchise is not extended to aliens or to coloured British subjects. Thirty-five municipalities have already been established, and considerable progress in the improvement of the towns has been made.

The integral unity of the Witwatersrand area has been recognised by the establishment, under Ordinance No. 48 of 1904, of the Rand Water Board, composed of representatives of the six Municipal Councils in the area and of the Chamber of Mines, which is charged with the task of obtaining water for and supplying it in bulk to its constituent authorities; and further by the creation under Ordinance No. 9 of 1906 of the Rand Provisional Joint Committee, composed of representatives of the Municipal Councils within the area, with the duty of dealing with Hospital matters, the prevention of epidemic diseases in the area and the upkeep of the Main Reef Road—a main trunk road traversing practically the whole of the area.

Local Self-Government in rural districts has not yet been inaugurated, though in hospital matters provision is made for the formation of Joint Committees representative of Urban and Rural Committees, and further legislation was enacted in 1905 and 1906 providing for the creation of Health Committees where the density of the population makes it necessary for sanitary measures to be enforced.

In June, 1904, a Commission was appointed to inquire into the financial relations between the Central Government and the various Municipal Governments. This Commission has already issued three reports and will shortly issue its fourth and final report, completing an exhaustive survey of the important subjects which were referred to its consideration. Many of the recommendations of this Commission have already been adopted.

The Occupation Farms Ordinance, 1904, is administered by the Department, as are also several minor Ordinances affecting town lands, etc.

Education.

On the 30th June, 1907, there were 502 schools for white children, and at which 35,791 pupils were enrolled. There were, in addition, 1,268 pupils enrolled at schools for "coloured" children—namely, children of whose parents one is of European birth or descent; in addition there were 209 schools, at which 11,206 aboriginal children were enrolled. Thus the total number of children under the direct or indirect control of the Government was 48,265. These figures represent an increase in respect of white children of 4,705 during the year ending 30th June, 1907. This large increase is due, in the main, to the absorption within the Government system of the Dutch Schools, which had arisen through the dissatisfaction of a portion of the Dutch section of the population with the Government system.

Of the children in the schools for whites 33,971 are receiving primary and 1,820 secondary education. Primary education is free, and under the new Act will be, as far as is practicable, compulsory. Of the primary schools 344, accommodating 10,798 children, are farm schools, and 140, with an enrolment of 24,993 children, are situated in towns and villages. In addition to the secondary education given in the schools the Government also maintains the Normal College for the training of teachers. There were in residence on the 30th June last 76 students. The University College in Johannesburg provides education of university standard (chiefly in subjects connected with mining and engineering) for over 50 students.

Finances.

The accounts of the Colony begin practically with the year 1902-3.

| Year    | Receipts | Expenditure |
|---------|----------|-------------|
|         |          | Ordinary | Extraordinary |
| 1902-3  | £4,683,206 | £8,863,062 |
| 1903-4  | 4,423,212 | 4,378,204 |
| 1904-5  | 4,405,439 | 4,023,279 | 350,671 |

Receipts.

| Year    | Receipts | Expenditure |
|---------|----------|-------------|
|         |          | Ordinary | Extraordinary |
| 1905-6  | £4,587,165 | £83,066 |
| 1906-7  | 4,371,120 | 16,056 |

Expenditure.

| Year    | Receipts | Expenditure |
|---------|----------|-------------|
|         |          | Ordinary | Extraordinary | Special |
| 1905-6  | £4,257,646 | £695,849 |
| 1906-7  | 4,205,487 | 215,304 | 227,280 |

The principal receipts during 1906-7 were:

- Customs ........................................... £1,638,140
- Mining Revenue .................................. 1,001,663
- Posts, Telegraphs and Telephones .............. 395,603
- Native Revenue .................................... 547,142
- Stamp Duties ....................................... 191,220
- Transfer Duty ..................................... 123,281
- Land Revenue ...................................... 70,186
- Taxes on Trades and Professions ................ 162,787

The extraordinary expenditure figures include an amount of 40,000l. for the extirpation of cattle disease, 14,500l. salaries to Z.A.R. officials, 74,337l. allowances to Z.A.R. officials, 17,500l. Government printing and stationery department, 39,980l. purchase of hypothecated properties bought in, 12,000l. relief works—unemployed.

Special Expenditure includes 34,280l. extension of telephone system, 175,000l. public works.

In addition to the above-mentioned revenue expenditure issues there were the following loan expenditure issues:

- Land Settlement .................................. £35,000
- Public Works ...................................... 34,000

The balance on the 30th June, 1907, taking the above figures into account, was £286,486.

During Mr. Chamberlain's stay in Johannesburg, an arrangement was made between him and a large representative body of the colonists that a loan of 35,000,000l. should be issued, guaranteed by the Imperial Government, and secured on the general revenue of the Transvaal and Orange River Colonies, bearing interest at 3% per annum, with a sinking fund of 1%. It was understood that the proceeds of this loan would be used for the extinction of liabilities, the purchase of public
works and railways, and other local requirements. It was further understood that a further loan of £30,000,000, bearing interest at 4%, should be issued, and that the proceeds of this loan should be paid to the Imperial Government as a contribution towards the cost of the war. This issue was to take place in three instalments of £10,000,000 each, at an interval of at least twelve months between each, and the first instalment was to be raised about January, 1914, the success of this issue being guaranteed by certain South African firms. The loan was to be a charge on the general revenue of the Transvaal.

The necessary legislation having been passed in the Imperial Parliament and the local legislature, the first of these loans, to the extent of £30,000,000, was issued (at par) in May, 1903. Throughout this and subsequent years, however, there was considerable depression in the Colony, and His Majesty's Government did not press for the raising of the second or war loan.

His Majesty's Government, in granting Responsible Government to the Transvaal in 1906, announced their intention of abandoning their claim on the Transvaal for the £30,000,000 war loan.

The balance of the £35,000,000 loan (£5,000,000) was raised about the middle of 1904. This loan was put up to tender, and realised an average price of 98½/10s. 3d. By that time the whole of the first issue had been practically expended, counting in the amounts earmarked for definite impending liabilities—such as the redemption of the shares of the Netherlands Railway Company. The issues from loan funds were as follows in June, 1907:

| Head I. Existing liabilities of Transvaal and O.R.C. |
|---|---|
| (a) Deficit of Transvaal, 1901-2 | £541,510 |
| (b) Former debt of South African Republic | £2,500,880 |
| (c) Compensation to Levellists in Cape Colony and Natal | £1,560,852 |

| Head II. Acquisition of Railways | £13,077,619 |
| Head III. Repatriation and Compensation |
| (a) Advances by way of loan | £2,693,759 |
| (b) Other charges | £4,513,729 |
| Head IV. Railways |
| (a) Construction of New Railways | £3,818,308 |
| (b) Rolling Stock and Workshops | £1,542,000 |
| Land Settlement |
| (a) Transvaal | £1,219,925 |
| (b) Orange River Colony | £1,246,000 |
| Public Works |
| (a) Transvaal | £1,290,717 |
| (b) Orange River Colony | £500,000 |

Balance | £9,616,949 |

The heavy task of repairing the ravages of war and relieving the necessities of all classes of people in the new Colonies was dealt with from four funds, viz.:

1. The £3,000,000 mentioned in the Terms of Surrender, and paid as a free grant from Imperial funds.

2. £5,000,000 appropriated for "repatriation and compensation" from the guaranteed loan. This amount was fully spent by the middle of 1904, and has since been largely over-spent. The expenditure at 30th June, 1907, after allowing for credits received from debts to the fund liquidated from the £3,000,000 grant, and sundry repayments of advances, amounts to £7,207,489, of which £2,693,759 represent advances repayable in the course of three years.

3. £2,000,000 allotted to compensation to "British subjects, foreign subjects, and natives." This, like (1), was a free grant from Imperial funds. More than half of it was paid by the 30th April, 1904, to persons who had suffered losses from the war, at the rate of 13s. 4d. in the pound on their assessed losses, and the final instalment of 4s. in the pound brought the rate up to 17s. 4d., a very remarkable degree of compensation. £300,000 was set aside for the compensation of natives.

4. £2,000,000 paid by the War Office for disbursement to the "protected burghers," being men to whom the military authorities had incurred some special obligation.

To this was added a further sum of £2,500,000 to discharge the military receipts given during the war. This must be distinguished from the previous funds, as it was required for the payment of debts which formed part of the expenses of the war; the payments, however, in common with those under the previous heads, assisted the people to re-build, re-stock, and make a fresh start in their occupations. The amount actually paid has slightly exceeded the £2,500,000.

Thus the total amount provided for relief was £14,500,000, of which £2,500,000 was in payment for goods received.

When the guaranteed loan was about to be issued, several difficulties arose as to the allocation of the proceeds, as there were various matters in which both of the new Colonies were interested, and it was accordingly decided to treat the railways as the joint property of the two Colonies, and to establish a common fund for that and the like common services. For these purposes the Inter-Colonial Council was constituted. (See under "South Africa.") The revenue of this body for the year 1905-6 was £6,752,629, which included railway receipts of £5,855,232, and contributions from the Transvaal and Orange River Colony of £849,688, the arrangement being that these contributions are (unless the Secretary of State decides otherwise) to be in proportion to their respective customs receipts for the preceding year. The expenditure was £6,752,629, the principal items being:- Service of guaranteed loan, £687,710; South African Constabulary (about 5,000 men), £1,013,834; Central South African Railways, £940,465.
Considerable prospecting for diamonds is being carried on in the Pretoria district. The Premier (Transvaal) Diamond Mining Company still maintains its position as one of the largest diamond producers of the world; its production up to the end of June, 1907, being 3,082,056 carats. The total value of the diamonds produced in the Transvaal since the war is as follows:

| Year | Value |
|------|-------|
| 1901-2 | £1,199 |
| 1902-3 | 46,358 |
| 1903-4 | 685,720 |
| 1904-5 | 1,198,530 |
| 1905-6 | 968,229 |
| 1906-7 | 2,203,511 |

In 1905 the output of coal was 2,606,790 tons (of 2,000 lbs.), valued at 846,272l.; 1906, 2,892,404 tons valued at 832,315l.

Governor.
Right Hon. the Earl of Selborne, P.C., G.C.M.G.

The Ministry, 4th March, 1907.
Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, General the Rt. Hon. Louis Botha, 4,000l.
Colonial Secretary, General the Hon. Jan Christiaan Smuts, 3,000l.
Attorney-General and Minister of Mines, Hon. Jacob de Villiers, 3,000l.
Colonial Treasurer, Hon. Henry Charles Hull, 3,000l.
Minister of Lands and Minister for Native Affairs, Hon. Johann Friedrich Bernhard Rissik, 3,000l.
Minister of Public Works, Hon. Edward Philip Solomon, 3,000l.

Legislative Council.
President, Hon. Hugh Crawford.
Chairman of Committees, Hon. Johannes Erasmus van der Merwe.
Hon. Willem Hendrik Hon. Thomson Alfred Buhrman.
Hon. Lionel George Hon. Rufus Purchas.
Hon. Lionel George Hon. Alexander Seaton Curtis.
Hon. Lionel George Hon. Alfred George Robertson.
Hon. Gert Johan Hon. Peter Daniel Albert Wilhelm du Toit.
Hon. Richard Feetham. Hon. John Roy.
Hon. Max Langermann. Hon. Andrias Daniel Hon. William Anderson Martin.

Clerk, E. N. O. Clough.
Assistant Clerk, D. E. van Velden.
Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod, G. H. C. Hannan.

Legislative Assembly.
Speaker, General the Hon. Christiaan Frederick Beyers, 2,500l.
Chairman of Committees, Andries Stockenstrom, 600l.
Clerk of the House, G. R. Hofmeyr, 1,200l., and residence.
Assistant Clerk, C. E. Hawes, 650l.
Serjeant-at-Arms, T. L. de Havilland, 250l.
Committee Clerk (vacant), 500l.
Assistant Committee Clerk, C. R. Digby, 360l.
Translator, Henri Dijkman, 400l.
Clerk of the Papers, H. A. van der Spuy, 180l.
Joint Librarian, T. L. de Havilland, 150l.

The Transvaal stands at the head of the gold-producing countries of the world. The production, which in 1887 amounted to a value of 169,401l., rose steadily until 1898, when it reached a value of 16,240,630l. The following are the values for recent years:

| Year | Value |
|------|-------|
| 1903 | 12,028,057 |
| 1904 | 16,028,883 |
| 1905 | 20,854,440 |
| 1906 | 24,606,336 |

The output in 1907 was 6,451,384 ozs. Almost the whole production is from reef, the alluvial gold being inconsiderable in amount.

In 1897, the average number of persons employed by gold mines was 9,530 whites and 69,127 natives. These numbers rose to 12,000 and 107,000 just before the war in 1899, but then fell to about 10,000 and 45,000 in December, 1902. In June, 1906, the whites numbered 17,165 and the natives 111,881. The wages in 1906 were from about 10s. to 35s. per shift for skilled white workmen, and 52s. monthly for natives; the latter are also provided with housing and food, at a cost of 10s. per month each.

Chinese labourers were imported under an Ordinance (17 of 1904) passed in February, 1904. At the end of 1905 the further issue of licences for the importation of these labourers was arrested by His Majesty's Government, and subsequently, on the promulgation of the Transvaal Letters Patent, provision was made for the repatriation of all Chinese labourers on the expiration of their contracts. The first batch of Chinese to be repatriated in terms of this condition left the country at the end of June, 1907. The month of January, 1907, shows the highest number (viz. 53,836) of Chinese in the employ of mines, whilst at the end of June, 1907, there were 51,517 Chinese.

The main reef on the Witwatersrand, continuously traced, measures about 62 miles, and between 1884 and the end of June, 1907, produced about 183,000,000l. of gold. Since the British occupation great activity has been displayed in boring operations, especially in the far eastern and western extensions of the Rand. During the year ended 30th June, 1907, the Transvaal produced copper ore value 36,703l.; tin ore, 27,184l.; galena, 18,584l.; antimony, 127l.; lime, 57,516l.; magnesite, 4,106l.; asbestos, 3,655l.; and the silver contained in the gold bullion exported was valued at 92,874l.
### Members

| Name                        | Constituencies          |
|-----------------------------|-------------------------|
| Bailey, Abe                 | Krugersdorp             |
| Beyers, Fredrik William     | Turffontein             |
| Bezuidenhout, Frederik Jacobus | Roodekoppen           |
| Botha, Gen. The Right Hon. Louis | Standerton            |
| Brammer, Charles            | Germiston Central       |
| Briggs, Herbert             | Orphirton              |
| Burger, Gen. Schalk Willem Percy | Lydenburg South        |
| Chaplin, Francis Drummond   | Germiston West          |
| Collins, William Richard    | Ermelo                 |
| Cullinan, Thomas Major      | Pretoria North-West    |
| de Clercq, Jacob            | Middelburg East        |
| de la Rey, Gen. Jacobus Herculaaus | Ventersdorp         |
| de Villiers, Hon. Jacob     | Maraisburg             |
| de Waal, Hendrik            | Wolmaranstad           |
| de Wet, Nicolaas Jacobus    | Middelburg West        |
| Dreyer, Theunis Frederik Jacobus | Losberg               |
| Erasmus, Gen. Daniel Jacobus Elardus | Pretoria East         |
| Evans, John Emrys, C.M.G.   | Langlaagte             |
| Farrar, Sir George Howard, D.S.O. | Boksburg East         |
| Ferreiro, Ignatius Stephanus | Bloemhof              |
| Fitzpatrick, Sir James Percy | Pretoria South Central |
| Goldmann, Richard           | Newtown                |
| Gregorowski, Reinhold       | Pretoria South-West    |
| Grobler, Hendrik Stephanus Hamilton | Bethal               |
| Hamilton, John Gardiner, M.V.O. | Springs              |
| Hay, George Alexander      | Clifton                |
| Helm, Albertus Bernardus   | Wakkerstroom           |
| Hoeken, William            | Von Brandis            |
| Hull, Hon. Henry Charles Jacobaz, Louis Johannes | Georgetown          |
| Johnston, Andrew           | Rustenburg North       |
| Jones, Benjamin Owen       | Arcadia                |
| Joubert, Joza Adriaan      | Boksburg West          |
| Krause, Frederik Edward Traugott | Volksrust            |
| Lance, William Fuller      | Vrededorp              |
| Langerman, Jan Willem Stuckeris | Jeppe                |
| Lemmer, Lodewijk Arnoldus Slabbert | Randfontein          |
| Lindsey, Henry Lill        | Marico                 |
| Loveday, Richard Kelsey    | Troevelle              |
| Macaulay, Donald           | Barberton              |
| MacNeillie, James Campbell | Denver                 |
| Mentz, Hendrik             | Klipportjie            |
| Mortimer, William          | Zoutpansberg West      |
| Munnik, George Glaeser     | Potchefstroom          |
| Napier, Francis Horatio    | Zoutpansberg East      |
| Nesser, Johannes Adriaan   | Hospital               |
| Nicholson, Richard Granville | Klersklopp            |
| Quinn, John William        | Waterberg              |
| Rabie, Carel Theodorus     | Union                  |
| Reid, John                 | Lydenburg North        |
| Rissik, Hon. Johann Friedrich Bernhard | Berea               |
| Booth, Edward              | Burghersdorp           |
| Upon, Col. Sir Aubrey Collins, K.C.B. | Parktown            |

### Members

| Name                        | Constituencies          |
|-----------------------------|-------------------------|
| Sampson, Henry William      | West City and Suburban  |
| Sellar, John Nicol          | Robinson                |
| Sheffield, George           | Bezuidenhout            |
| Smute, Gen. The Hon. Jan Christiaan | Wonderboom          |
| Solomon, Hon. Edward Philip Solomon | Fordburg               |
| Solomon, Henry              | Ferreiras               |
| Stockenstrom, Andries       | Heidelberg              |
| Strachan, Robert            | Germiston North         |
| Tucker, William Kidger, C.M.G. | Roodepoort            |
| van Aardt, Daniel Francois van Heeren, Barend Isaac Jacobus | Carolina          |
| van Hulsteyn, Sir Willem    | Rustenburg South        |
| Vermaas, Hendrik Cornelius Wilhelmus | Yeoville              |
| Wannenburg, Petrus Johannes Whiteside | Witwatersberg         |
| Wybergh, Wilfred John       | Siemert                 |

### Governor's Establishment

- **Governor and High Commissioner**, Right Hon. the Earl of Selborne, P.C., G.C.M.G., 8,000£, and 3,000£ from Imperial Funds.
- **Military Secretary**, Captain the Hon. Dudley Marjoribanks, D.S.O., M.V.O., 750£.
- **Private Secretary**, D. O. Malcolm, 700£.
- **Assistant Private Secretary**, Lieut. the Hon. J. C. Lyttelton, 500£.
- **Aide-de-Camp**, Viscount Windsor, 300£.

### Prime Minister's Office

- **Prime Minister**, Rt. Hon General Louis Botha, 4,000£.
- **Acting Secretary**, W. J. Fockens, 900£.
- **Private Secretary**, Dr. W. E. Bok, 480£.
- **Chief Clerk**, L. J. de V. Faure, 600£.

### Colonial Secretary's Department

- **Colonial Secretary**, J. C. Smuts, 3,000£.
- **Acting Assistant Colonial Secretary**, E. H. L. Gorges, 1,500£.
- **Under-Secretary**, Captain H. R. M. Bourne, 750£.
- **Registrar of Marriages, Births and Deaths**, J. J. Erlank, 600£.

### Pretoria Lunatic Asylum

- **Medical Superintendent**, Dr. P. E. Toold, 1,200£, and quarters.

### Printing and Stationery Department

- **Government Printer**, F. W. Knightley, 750£.

### Government Game Reserves

- **Warden**, Major J. Stevenson Hamilton, 600£, transport and travelling, 300£.

### Asiatic Affairs

- **Protector of Asiatics**, M. Chamney, 1,000£.

### Public Health Department

- **Medical Officer of Health for the Transvaal**, Dr. George Turner, 1,500£.
- **Inspecting Medical Officer of Health for the Transvaal**, Dr. P. C. Walker, 900£, plus 174£ horse allowance.
- **District Medical Officer of Health for the Witwatersrand**, Dr. C. L. Sansom, 1,200£, plus 150£ motor car allowance.
District Medical Officer of Health for Northern Transvaal, Dr. F. Arnold, 1,000l., and 200l. climatic allowance.

Government Analyst, Dr. J. McCrae, 850l.

District Surgeon (Pretoria), Dr. A. W. Sanders, 600l., plus 180l. horse allowance, and private practice.

Chief District Surgeon (Johannesburg), Dr. Wm. N. Russell, 600l., plus 180l. horse allowance, and private practice.

Rietfontein Lazaretto.

Medical Superintendent, Dr. Max Mehliss, 900l., house and rations.

Leper Asylum.

Superintendent, Dr. George Turner (M.O.H. for the Transvaal), 300l., house and transport.

Lay Superintendent, J. W. Phillips, 500l., house and rations.

Meteorological Department.

Director, R. T. A. Innes, 800l. and quarters.

Pretoria Hospital.

Medical Superintendent, Dr. G. Thornton, 1,000l. and quarters.

Education Department.

Director of Education, J. E. Adamson, M.A., 1,500l.

Attorney-General's Department.

Attorney-General, The Hon. J. de Villiers, salary 3,000l.

Secretary, Law Department, H. Tennant, C.M.G., 1,800l.

Legal Advisers, E. L. Matthews, 1,500l.; R. Burns-Begg, K.C., 1,500l.

Acting Private Secretary to Attorney-General, J. S. Smit, 420l.

Inspecting Magistrate and Inspector of Prisons, F. L. H. Aitchison, 1,100l.

Supreme Court.

Chief Justice, Sir J. Rose-Innes, K.C.M.G., K.C., 4,000l.

Pursue Judges, Sir W. H. Solomon, 3,000l.; J. W. Wessels, 3,000l.; Sir W. J. Smith, 3,000l.; A. W. Mason, 3,000l.; L. S. Bristowe, 3,000l.; J. S. Curlewis, 3,000l.

Registrar and Taxing Master, C. F. Rorke, 1,200l.

High Court of Witwatersrand.

Crown Prosecutor, E. W. Douglass, 1,500l.

Registrar and Taxing Master, H. D. Bowker, 800l.

Master of the Supreme Court.

Master, T. B. Herold, 1,200l.

Commissioner of Patents.

Commissioner and Registrar of Companies and Trade Marks, C. W. T. B. Juta (acting), 600l.

Assistant Registrar of Companies, H. D. Weddloe (acting), 440l.

Sheriffs Office.

Sheriff, C. F. Rorke, 1,200l.

Registrar of Deeds.

Registrar, J. Smuts, 1,200l.

Assistant Registrar, G. Denoon, M.A., LL.B., 850l.

Prisons Department.

Director, C. J. Hanretté, 1,200l.

Governor (Johannesburg Prison), Capt. P. H. Normand, D.S.O. (acting), 500l. per annum, 100l. personal allowance, free quarters and forage.

Governor (Central Convict Prison and Local Gaol, Pretoria), S. J. Bird (on leave), 800l. per annum, free quarters and forage, W. S. Bateman (acting), 800l. per annum, free quarters and forage.

Governor (East Rand Prisons), E. W. Wise (acting), 500l. per annum, 100l. personal allowance, free quarters and forage.

Magistrates.

H. Rose-Innes, 1,200l.; T. M. McInerney, T. G. Truter, P. C. Cochran, Col. F. H. Damant, C.B., D.S.O.; J. G. Leary, E. H. Hogge, J. B. Skirving, A. R. Orsmond, A. B. Roberts, J. C. Krogh, J. Blacklock, C.A. Wheelwright, C.M.G., C. Griffith (acting), 1,000l. each; J. C. Juta, 800l.

Johannesburg.

Chief Magistrate, L. L. Playford, 1,500l.

1st Civil Magistrate, H. O. Buckle, 1,200l.

2nd Civil Magistrate, E. H. M. T. Baines (acting), 800l.

Assistant Resident Magistrates, N. van den Berg, 1,000l.; H. H. Jordan, 800l.; and H. Walton, 800l.; J. Young, 800l.; S. A. McCormick (acting), 600l.

Assistant Resident Magistrate, and as such Magistrate for Inquests, L. W. J. Gill, 1,000l.

Police.

Commissioner of Police, H. F. D. Papenfus (acting), 1,500l.

Deputy Commissioners, Lieut.-Colonel C. R. M. O'Brien (Johannesburg), 1,100l.; Major T. W. M. Fuge (Pretoria), 900l.; L. D. P. Potter (Johannesburg), 900l.

Criminal Investigation Department.

Chief Detective Inspector, T. E. Mavrogordato (acting), 875l.

Treasury.

Colonial Treasurer, H. C. Hull, 3,000l.

Secretary, J. R. Leisk, 1,500l.

Chief Inspector of Revenue, J. C. Sheridan, 1,200l.

Audit Office.

Auditor-General, W. H. Moor, 1,800l.

Postal and Telegraph Department.

Postmaster-General, J. Frank Brown, 1,800l.

Secretary, W. J. Woolley, 1,200l.

Principal Clerk, S. J. Gold, 800l.

Chief Accountant, J. Aitken, 850l.

Telegraph Traffic Manager, A. Laing, 800l.

Controller, Circulation Branch, Johannesburg, W. J. Blofield, 800l.

Controller, Central Telegraph Office, Johannesburg, A. Brown, 600l.

Postmaster, Pretoria, C. Long, 800l.

Chief Engineer, J. Grant, 950l.

Controller of Stores, R. B. Whyte, 600l.

Customs.

Director of Customs, J. W. Honey, 1,800l.

Secretary of Customs, H. R. Eaton, 1,000l.

Collector (Pretoria), T. Reiner, 750l.

Collector (Johannesburg), P. Hertslet, I.S.O., 1,200l.
Native Affairs Department.

Minister, J. F. B. Rissik, 3,000l.
Secretary, W. Windham, 1,500l.
Director, Government Native Labour Bureau and Protector of Natives for Labour Districts, H. M. Taberer, 1,500l.

Public Works Department.

Minister of Public Works, Hon. E. P. Solomon, 3,000l.
Private Secretary to Minister, C. J. Tregenna, 260l. to 340l.
Chief Engineer and Secretary, C. Murray, 1,500l.
Inspecting Engineer, G. W. Herdman, 750l. to 900l., and 100l. special allowance.
Chief Clerk, J. A. Macphail, 650l. to 800l.
Principal Clerks, D. D. M. McLaren, A. D. Holmwood, C. Christie, 500l. to 650l.
Accountant, E. C. Hooper, 600l. to 750l. and 100l. special allowance.
Assistant Accountant, W. J. Gyde, 450l. to 600l.
Senior Clerks, R. J. Bentote, E. G. Carpmel, G. F. Dodd, J. M. Kennedy, W. P. Storer, J. H. O. Johnston, H. W. G. McIntyre, H. E. Morony, 360l. to 450l.
Clerks, S. C. Hall, E. S. B. Conolly, A. Stuart, J. Davidson, S. Coldrey, J. P. L. McLaren, A. Cooper, D. M. Keith, H. Inglis, H. B. Ramsay, F. P. Evans, J. H. Quibell, H. H. Carey, W. Morley, R. H. Codling, G. C. King, G. N. Pasley, J. H. S. Roos, A. A. Neely, 260l. to 340l.
Junior Clerks, C. J. Murphy, D. Leach, 180l. to 240l.
Architect, P. Eagle, 600l. to 750l.
Chief Draughtsman, W. W. Tonkin, 400l. to 550l.
Draughtsmen, H. C. Kenway, 350l. to 500l.; S. W. Whitmore, J. G. Wilson, J. N. Cormack, 300l. to 450l.
Quantity Surveyor, H. Bell-John, 600l. to 750l.
Assistant Quantity Surveyor, H. A. Adams, 350l. to 500l.
Measurer to Quantity Surveyor, W. E. Puntis, 300l. to 450l.
Electrical Engineer, F. C. Stephens, 600l. to 750l.
Assistant to Electrical Engineer, W. B. Cleeves, 350l. to 500l.
Storekeeper, R. A. Baxter, 400l. to 450l., and free house.
Transport Officer, H. H. Hewson, 400l. to 500l.
District Engineer, Johannesburg, C. J. Gyde, 750l. to 900l.
Assistant Engineer, Johannesburg, W. H. Richardson-Jones, 450l. to 600l.
District Clerk, A. E. Geere, 360l. to 440l.
Clerks, L. F. Spring, W. E. D. Bennett, A. W. Willis, H. W. Hale, J. Gillooly, 260l. to 340l.
Inspectors of Works, D. F. Ellis, H. M. Colman, 400l. to 450l.
District Engineer, Pretoria, W. B. Shand, 750l. to 900l.
Assistant Engineer, Pretoria, G. F. W. Tomkyns, 450l. to 600l.
District Clerk, T. A. Corrigan, 360l. to 440l.
Clerk, A. E. Povall, 260l. to 340l.
Inspectors of Works, W. S. Kelso, J. C. Edwards, 400l. to 450l.
Assistant Engineer, Middelburg, W. F. Curry, 500l. to 700l.
District Clerk, P. Manning, 360l. to 440l.
Clerk, C. A. Holmwood, 260l. to 340l.
Inspectors of Works, J. Laver, L. Castera, 400l. to 450l.
Assistant Engineer, Potchefstroom, F. A. Morgan, 500l. to 700l.
District Clerk, E. F. E. Wright, 360l. to 440l.
Clerk, L. H. Milne, 260l. to 340l.
Inspectors of Works, R. S. Perfect, R. D. Webb, 400l. to 450l.
Assistant Engineer, Standerton, J. S. Richardson, 500l. to 700l.
District Clerk, F. A. R. McElwee, 360l. to 440l.
Clerk, J. G. Dale, 260l. to 340l.
Inspectors of Works, T. J. Hall, W. C. Wood, 400l. to 450l.

Land Department.

Minister of Lands and Native Affairs, Johann Rissik.
Secretary for Lands, G. R. Hughes, 1,000l.
Chief Clerk and Accountant, J. Sommerville, 650l.
Private Secretary to Minister of Lands, A. E. Charter, 500l.
Inspectors of Lands, R. H. Stevens, 450l.; and E. O. Ward, 450l.
Manager, Potchefstroom Burgher Land Settlement, W. S. Scott, 750l.
Manager, Heidelberg Burgher Land Settlement, A. H. S. Baker, 600l.
Meteorological Department Director, R. T. A. Innes, 800l.

The Land Department was constituted by the Crown Land Disposal Ordinance passed in 1902, and was preceded by a Land Board appointed by the High Commissioner in December, 1901. The Department is charged with the settlement of Crown lands for agricultural purposes, on lease or terms of conditional purchase. Its functions also include the disposal, by sale or otherwise, of Government erven, and the reservation of land for public and other purposes; all matters which affect the administration of Crown lands are dealt with by the Department.

Land Settlement Board.

The Board, which is a body corporate consisting of three members, was constituted by Section 52 of the Transvaal Letters Patent of the 6th December, 1906, providing for the constitution of Responsible Government in the Transvaal. Its duties are defined by the section mentioned, and may be briefly described as the administration of the Settlers' Ordinance, 1902, or any amendment thereof, in so far as it concerns the settlers in occupation on the 1st May, 1907, being the date appointed for the assumption of office by the Board. The period of the Board's existence is limited by the Letter Patent to five years.

Chairman, John Dove, 1,000l.
Members, Hugh Crawford, M.L.C., and J. A. van der Byl.
Secretary, Thos. E. Naughten, 500l.

Mines Department.

Minister of Mines, I. de Villiers.
Secretary, H. Warington Smyth, 1,500l.
Assistant Secretary, F. Moss Blundell, 1,000l.
Accountant, O. W. Owen, 700l.
Government Mining Engineer, R. Kotze, 1,800l., and 174l. allowance.
Chief Inspector of Mines, H. Weldon.
Inspectors of Mines, W. Moses, M.I.M.M.E., 1,500l., and 174l. allowance; U. P. Swinburne, 1,500l., and 174l. allowance; J. S. Fisher, 1,200l., and 100l. allowance.

Deputy Inspectors of Mines, T. G. Trevor, A.R.S.M., 800l., and 100l. allowance; H. Bottomley, C.M.G., 800l., and 174l. allowance; J. E. Vaughan, M. Fergusson, A.R.S.M., F.R.G.S., 800l., and 100l. allowance each.

Chief Inspector of Machinery, J. A. Vaughan, R.N. (retired), M.I.M.E., M.A.S.M.E., 1,200l., and 100l. allowance.

Inspectors of Machinery, G. J. Van Wouw, 700l., and 300l. allowance; E. H. Parry, M.I.M.E., 750l., and 100l. allowance; W. M. Epton, M.I.M.E., W. Tosh, P. G. Wishart, S. Gould, G. O. Strachan, C. B. Patricket, and S. F. Stokes, 700l., and 100l. allowance each.

Assistant Inspectors of Machinery, D. G. W. Hume, H. C. Symmes, S. H. Wade, and C. H. Willan, 600l., and 100l. allowance each.

Mine Surveyors, A. C. Sutherland, M.A., M.C.E., 1,200l.; H. Radcliffe Brown, 600l.

Chief Inspector of Explosives, A. B. Denne (Major, late R.A.), 1,200l.

Inspector of Explosives, James Thomas, 600l., and 72l. allowance.

Principal Clerk, J. R. Mackinlay, M.A. (Edin.), 700l.

Registrar of Mining Rights, Duncan Stuart, 1,500l.

Assistant Registrar of Mining Rights, H. C. Fleischer, 1,000l.

District Registrars, A. Morice, L. van der Merwe, T. H. Serjeant, J. P. du Toit, W. G. Sutton, W. A. Hirst, H. Hamel, 800l. each.

Principal Clerk, R. H. Greatorex, B.A., 800l.

Director of Geological Survey, H. Kynaston, M.A., F.G.S., 1,200l., and 330l. allowance.

Field Geologists, E. T. Mellor, 600l., and 300l. allowance; A. L. Hall, 600l., and 300l. allowance; W. A. Humphrey, 500l., and 300l. allowance.

Surveys.

Surveyor-General, W. H. Gilfillan, 1,500l.

Assistant Surveyor-General, H. E. Schoch, 1,000l.

Examiner of Diagrams, W. M. Edwards, 850l.

Register Surveyor, A. E. Wayland, 800l.

Chief Computer, J. F. Loveday, 600l.

Chief Draughtsman, B. D. Melville, 500l.

Chief Clerk, A. C. F. Greville, 500l.

Agricultural Department.

Director, F. B. Smith, 1,500l.

Chief Clerk, B. G. L. Enslin, 500l. by 30l. to 650l.

Accountant, A. J. Firth, 450l. by 30l. to 600l.

Division of Veterinary Science:

(a) Bacteriology, A. Theiler, C.M.G., 1,200l.

(b) Contagious Diseases, C. E. Gray, 1,000l. to 1,200l. by 50l.

Division of Chemistry, Herbert Ingle, 1,200l.

Division of Botany, J. Burtt Davy, 1,000l. to 1,200l. by 50l.

Division of Forestry, C. E. Legat 600l. to 800l. by 50l.

Division of Entomology, C. W. Howard, 500l. by 30l. to 650l.

Division of Horticulture, R. A. Davis, 800l.

Division of Publications, W. MacDonald, 600l.

Division of Poultry, R. Bourlery, 400l. to 500l. by 50l.

Division of Brands, J. J. Pienaar, 360l. by 20l. to 440l.

Division of Horse Breeding, A. McNae, 500l. by 25l. to 650l.

Government Experimental Farm, Potchefstroom, A. Holm, 650l. by 50l. to 750l.

Government Stud Sheep Farm, Ermelo, V. Bossley, 300l.

Tobacco Expert, J. van Leenhoff, 1,000l.

Director Transvaal Museum, Dr. J. W. B. Gunning, 900l.

Manager, Tzaneen Tobacco Estate, H. S. Altenroxel, 786l.

Museum and Zoological Gardens.

Director, Dr. J. W. B. Gunning, 900l.

Irrigation and Water Supply Department.

Chief Engineer, F. A. Hurley, 850l.

Hydrographic Surveyor, A. Karlson, 1,000l.

Executive Engineers, C. D. H. Braine, 900l.; R. J. Birt, 750l.; M. R. Collins, 750l.

Assistant Engineers, H. R. Young, 650l.; Yorke Eliot, 450l.; H. G. Holt, 450l.; E. A. Royds, 400l.

Boring Engineer, Geo. Ireland, 550l.

Boring Inspectors, T. Eden, 500l.; W. Bridge, 450l.

Chief Draughtsman, L. W. F. Howitz, 450l.

Chief Accountant, Newton Spicer, 600l.

Chief Clerk, H. M. McKay, 450l.

Transvaal Volunteers.

Commandant, Colonel C. J. Briggs, 1,200l.

Chief Staff-Officer, Brevet-Major J. W. F. Lamont, 1,000l.

Paymaster and Controller, Major (local) M. C. Rowland, 900l.

Staff Officers, Cadets.—Lt.-Colonel R. P. Macdonald, D.S.O., 750l.

Adjutants, Major E. Vaughan, 700l.; Capt. J. B. Orr, D.S.O., 700l.; Capt. C. G. Wickham, D.S.O., 700l.; Capt. F. S. Irvine, 700l.; Capt. R. W. White, 700l.; Capt. E. F. Thackeray, 700l.; Capt. W. Jardine, D.S.O., 700l.; Capt. C. E. Rice, 700l.

Acting Adjutants, Major P. S. Beves, 180l.; Capt. F. A. Jones, D.S.O., 180l.

Signalling Officer, Lieut. R. A. Holmes-a'Court, 150l.

South African Constabulary.

Headquarters Staff, Johannesburg.

Inspector-General, Lieut.-Col. R. S. Curtis, D.S.O., R.F., 2,000l., and 220l. allowance.

Assistant Inspector-General, O.R.C., Major J. G. Fair, D.S.O., 1,200l.

Assistant Inspector-General, Transvaal, H. W. Madoc, 1,000l. and 150l. allowance.

Inspecting Officer, O.R.C., A. E. Capell, D.S.O., 900l.

Inspecting Officer, Transvaal, J. S. G. Douglas, D.S.O., 750l., and 110l. allowance.

Secretary, P. F. Browne, 700l. and 50l. allowances.

Assistant Secretary, A. L. Castellain, 450l. and 50l. allowances.

Private Secretary, H. M. Lynch-Staunton, 400l. and 50l. allowances.

Chief Paymaster, H. Greener, D.S.O., 1,300l.

Chief Quartermaster, F. G. Harvey, 900l.

Medical Adviser, H. C. F. Garraway, 1,000l.
Headquarters Staff, South Africa.

General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Lieut.-General Sir H. J. T. Hildyard, K.C.B., Assistant Military Secretary, Major W. Q. Winwood, D.S.O.
Aides-de-Camp, Captain R. J. T. Hildyard, Lieut. A. Carton de Wiart.

General Staff.

Brigadier-General, Brigadier-General E. A. Altham, C.B., C.M.G.
Major, General Staff, Major W. A. White, Captain, General Staff, Capt. C. N. French.
Staff Officer for Horse and Field Artillery (temporarily vacant).

Administrative Staff.

Major-General i/c Administration, Maj.-Gen. Sir A. R. F. Dorward, K.C.B., D.S.O.
Deputy Assistant Quartermaster-General, Captain H. N. R. Cowie, D.S.O.
Deputy Assistant Adjutant-General, Major J. D. McLachlan.

Also at Headquarters.

Chief Engineer, Colonel H. E. Rawson, C.B.
Staff Officer, Royal Engineers, Captain S. G. Faber.
Assistant Director of Supplies and Transport, Commanding Army Service Corps, South Africa, Col. F. W. B. Koc.
Deputy Assistant Director of Supplies, Captain A. E. W. Harman.
Deputy Assistant Director of Transport, Major G. Vawdrey.
Superintendent of Gymnasia, Captain W. E. M. Wetherell.
Principal Medical Officer, Surgeon-General W. Donovan, C.B.
Staff Officer to Principal Medical Officer, Major J. R. McMunn.
Principal Matron, Miss F. E. Addams-Williams, R.R.C.
Secretary to Principal Matron, Miss E. Beck.
District Barrack Officer, Col. R. E. Hill.
Assistant Director of Ordnance Stores, Colonel R. T. Law.
Chief Accountant, Colonel C. A. Bray, C.M.G.
Principal Veterinary Officer, Lieut.-Colonel L. J. Blenkinsop, D.S.O.
Assistant Inspector of Remounts, Colonel C. R. M. O'Brien.
Staff Officer, Remounts, Lieut. E. N. Bankes.

Transvaal District Headquarters, Roberts Heights, Pretoria.

Major-General Commanding, Major-General R. A. Montgomery, C.V.O., C.B.
Aide-de-Camp, Lieut. H. P. Magill.
Colonel, General Staff, Colonel W. B. Fletcher.
Deputy Assistant Adjt. & Quartermaster-General, Captain T. E. Clarke.

Pretoria Sub-District.
Staff Captain, Capt. E. P. Thomson.

Potchefstroom Sub-District.

Brigadier-General Commanding, Brigadier-Gen. T. C. Porter, C.B.
Staff Captain, Major C. Gosling.

Standerton Sub-District.

Brigadier-General Commanding, Brigadier-Gen. T. P. B. Terman, C.M.G., D.S.O.
Staff Captain (temporarily vacant).

Ecclesiastical.

Church of England, Right Rev. W. M. Carter, D.D., Bishop of Pretoria.
Moderator of the Transvaal Presbytery, Rev. C. E. Greenfield.
President Wesleyan-Methodist Conference, Rev. Amos Burnet.
Moderator of the Synod of the Ned. Herv. of Geref. Congregation, Rev. H. S. Bosman.
Moderator of the Synod of the Ned. Hervormde Congregation, The Rev. Dr. P. J. Muller.
Moderator of the Synod of the Gereformeerde Congregation, Rev. P. Postma.
Moderator of the Ned. Geref. Congregation, Rev. C. J. Brink.
Roman Catholic Church, Right Rev. Dr. Miller, Bishop of Kimberley and Administrator of the Transvaal.

Agent-General in London, Hon. Sir Richard Solomon, K.C.B., K.C.M.G.
Secretary, J. Burns, I.S.O.

TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO.

