WEIHAIWEI.

History and Description.

The territory of Weihaiwei was leased to Great Britain by China by a Convention signed at Peking, on the 1st July, 1898.—“in order to provide Great Britain with a suitable Naval harbour in North China and for the better protection of British commerce in the neighbouring seas.”

The leased territory, which lies in latitude 37°30' N., longitude 122°10' E., is situated in the Chinese Province of Shantung, on the North-Eastern coast of the Shantung Peninsula. It comprises the Island of Liukung, all the islands in the Bay of Weihaiwei, and a belt of land ten English miles wide along the entire coast line.

The bay is six miles broad and from three to four wide. To it there is easy access from the Eastern and Western passages, the former being two-and-a-quarter miles wide, the latter two-thirds of a mile wide. These two channels are formed by the Island of Liukung, which, lying east and west across the Bay and being two miles long and three-quarters of a mile wide, forms a protection to the anchorage.

Weihaiwei is an easy place for shipping to make, and battleships and ocean steamers are able to lie close to the shore. The harbour is lighted by two lighthouses situated at the Eastern and Western entrances.

The territory has been surveyed by the Royal Engineers and mapped on a scale of two inches to a mile. The total area is 285 square miles, including the Island of Liukung.

Great Britain has also “the right to erect fortifications, station troops, or take any other measures necessary for defensive purposes at any points on or near the coast of the region East of the Meridian 121° 40' East of Greenwich, and to acquire on equitable compensation within that territory such sites as may be necessary for water supply, communications and hospitals. Within that zone Chinese administration will not be interfered with, but no troops other than Chinese or British shall be allowed therein.” This zone has been surveyed on a scale of one inch to a mile, and its area has been fixed at 1,505 square miles. The territory has a coast line seventy-two miles in length, the shores of which are generally picturesque and in many places wild and grand. Its surface consists of abrupt ranges of rugged hills, rising to a height of 1,600 feet, and well-cultivated valleys, watered by streams which are dry during the greater part of the year. All the hills are terraced for cultivation, so far as possible, and in many instances are planted with dwarf pine and scrub oak, but their general appearance is barren.

The strata of the mountains are metamorphic, consisting of beds of quartite, gneiss and crystalline limestone cut across by dykes of volcanic rock and granite. Minerals exist: prospecting work has been done; and a gold-mining company has been started.

There are about 310 villages, and the population is estimated to be 150,000.

The chief port of the dependency is named Port Edward, in commemoration of the coronation of His Majesty the King.

Climate.

The climate is regarded as one of the best in China. The winter is cold and bracing, and the summer heat is not excessive. The maximum
temperature in the shade is about 92° F., and the minimum about 10°. The rainfall is very small, averaging about 24 inches a year.

Constitution and Government.

The Government is administered by a Commissioner, appointed under His Majesty's Sign Manual and Signet, who discharges his functions under the Weihaiwei Order in Council of the 24th July, 1901. Under that instrument the Commissioner is empowered to make Ordinances, subject to the approval of the Secretary of State for the Colonies, for the administration of the territory, and provision is made for a High Court, in which all jurisdiction, civil and criminal, is vested, subject to an appeal to the Supreme Court of Hong Kong, and for District Magistrates' Courts.

The village communities are administered through their headmen in accordance with Chinese custom.

During the summer months Weihaiwei is used by His Majesty's fleet on the China Station as a sanatorium and exercising ground, and is frequented by an increasing number of visitors, who are attracted by its climate.

The dependency is not yet self-supporting. It has to be assisted by a grant-in-aid from Imperial funds. Its revenue for 1907-8 was estimated at £71,233, and the grant-in-aid was 10,000l.

In previous years the statistics were:

| Year   | Revenue | Expenditure | Grant-in-Aid |
|--------|---------|-------------|--------------|
| 1902-3 | 36,991  | 104,890     | 12,000       |
| 1903-4 | 58,364  | 160,921     | 9,000        |
| 1904-5 | 90,415  | 162,282     | 6,000        |
| 1905-6 | 105,934 | 146,120     | 3,000        |
| 1906-7 | 76,777  | 160,973     | 4,500        |

The administration of Weihaiwei was first undertaken by the Senior Naval Officer on the station in 1898. In the following year it was transferred to a Military and Civil Commissioner appointed by the War Office. On the 1st January, 1901, the dependency was handed over to the control of the Colonial Office, and a Civil Commissioner assumed the administration of the Government in 1902.

Commissioner, J. H. Stewart Lockhart, C.M.G., 1,500l., and 150l. entertainment allowance and house.

Secretary to Government and Magistrate, R. Walter, 500l. and free quarters.

District Officer, R. F. Johnston, 500l. and free quarters.

Medical Officers, H. J. Hickin, W. M. Must, 300l., rising to 400l., and free quarters.

Cudet, E. Carpmael, 300l. and free quarters.

Financial Assistant, H. B. Ching, £2,500 and free quarters.

Inspectors of Police, A. Whittaker, F. Forcey, F. Crudge, 250l. and free quarters.

WESTERN PACIFIC.

High Commission.

The office of High Commissioner in, over, and for the Western Pacific Islands, was created by an Order in Council, cited as the Western Pacific Order in Council of 1877, for the purpose of better carrying out the provisions of the Pacific Islanders' Protection Acts, 1872 and 1875, and to provide a Civil Court for the settlement of disputes between British subjects living in these islands.

The jurisdiction of the High Commissioner extends over all islands in the Western Pacific not being within the limits of the Colonies of Fiji, Queensland, New South Wales, or New Zealand, and not being within the jurisdiction of any civilised Power. In 1893 a new Order in Council was issued, known as the Pacific Order in Council, 1893, in accordance with which the High Commissioner's jurisdiction is extended to foreigners and (in most cases) to natives residing in British settlements or protectorates within the limits of the Order. The expenses of the High Commission are met from Imperial funds, Class V, vote 3, the amount provided in the estimates for 1906-7 being 4,050l.

The Chief Justice of Fiji, and every other Judge for the time being of the Supreme Court, is by virtue of his office a Judicial Commissioner, and where the attendance of the Chief Justice or other Judge of the Supreme Court is impracticable, the High Commissioner may appoint a Judicial Commissioner for particular purposes or for a particular time.

Deputy Commissioners are appointed by the High Commissioner on behalf of His Majesty.

The High Commissioner's Court consists of the High Commissioner, the Judicial Commissioners, and the Deputy Commissioners, and in it is vested all His Majesty's civil and criminal jurisdiction exercisable in the Western Pacific Islands.

The Court of a Judicial Commissioner has powers similar to those of the Superior Courts of England, and the Deputy Commissioners have civil jurisdiction in Common Law, Equity and Bankruptcy, with a limited jurisdiction in Probate, and have a criminal jurisdiction in respect of offences not punishable with seven years' penal servitude or upwards.

With some few exceptions all decisions of the High Commissioner's Court may be appealed against to the Supreme Court of Fiji.

For the purpose of better carrying out the provisions of the Pacific Islanders' Protection Acts, 1872 and 1875, and in order to deal with cases occurring where there is no resident Deputy Commissioner, certain officers in command of His Majesty's ships of war on the Australian station have been appointed Deputy Commissioners.

In addition to the other means of preserving order the High Commissioner has certain special powers for the deportation of persons whose proceedings endanger the peace of the Islands.

High Commissioners.

1877 Sir Arthur Gordon, G.C.M.G.
1878 John Gorrie (acting).
1879 Sir A. Gordon, G.C.M.G.
1882 Sir G. W. Des Voeux, K.C.M.G. (acting).
1883 J. B. Thurston, C.M.G. (Asst. High Com.)
1884 Sir G. W. Des Voeux (acting).
1885 W. Macgregor, C.M.G. (Act. Asst. High Com.)
1885 J. B. Thurston, C.M.G. (Asst. High Com.)
1887 Sir C. B. H. Mitchell, K.C.M.G.
1887 Dec., H. S. Berkeley (acting).
1888 Feb., Sir J. B. Thurston, K.C.M.G.
1893 Jan., H. S. Berkeley (Asst. High Com.)
1893 May, Sir J. B. Thurston, K.C.M.G.
1895 Mar., H. S. Berkeley (Asst. High Com.)
1897 Sir G. T. M. O'Brien, K.C.M.G.
1901 W. L. Allardyce (acting).
1902 Sir H. M. Jackson, K.C.M.G.
1903 Charles Major (acting).
1904 Sir E. F. im Thurn, K.C.M.G., C.B.
Establishment.

High Commissioner, Sir E. F. im Thurn, K.C.M.G., C.B., 300l. (in addition to Fiji salary).
Chief Judicial Commissioner, C. H. Major, 300l. (in addition to salary as Chief Justice of Fiji).
Secretary to High Commission, Merton King, 400l.
Registrar, High Commissioner's Court, R. Green, 50l.
Agent and Consul, Tonga, H. Hunter, C.M.G., 800l. and quarters, and 50l. as Consul.
Deputy Commissioner and Resident, Gilbert and Ellice Islands Protectorate, W. T. Campbell, 650l. and quarters (paid from Protectorate funds).
European Assistant, R. Cogswell, 300l. (from Protectorate Funds).
Deputy Commissioner and Resident, British Solomon Islands Protectorate, C. M. Woodford, 800l. and quarters (paid from Protectorate Funds).
Deputy Commissioner and Magistrate (Northern Division), British Solomon Islands Protectorate, 300l. and quarters (from Protectorate Funds), T. Edge Partington.
Magistrate, Shortland Island, N. S. Heffernau, 200l. and quarters.
Resident Deputy Commissioner, N. Hebrides, Capt. E. G. Rason, R.N., 700l. and quarters.
Deputy Commissioner, Pitcairn Island, R. T. Simons (Consul, Society Islands).
Deputy Commissioner, Fanning Island, A. Smith.

PRINCIPAL GROUPS UNDER THE HIGH COMMISSIONER.

The Tongan, or Friendly Islands, are situated between the 20th and 23rd degrees of south latitude. The islands are most of them of coral formation, but include some active volcanoes, notably Tofua, Kao, and Niuafou (Good Hope Island). The natives belong to the Polynesian race, and are closely allied to the natives of New Zealand, Tahiti, Samoa, and the Sandwich Islands. The islands are very rich in coconuts; and copra (the dried kernel of the nut) forms the principal export. Bananas and oranges are also exported from Vavau, in the northern part of the group. There is regular steam communication with Auckland (1,000 miles distant), Sydney (1,850 miles), and Fiji, and sailing vessels run between Tonga and Fiji (200 miles). Sailing vessels carry the copra to Europe.

The late king, George Tubou, was the first of its chiefs or kings to establish an effective government over the whole of Tonga, and his rule on the whole was fairly successful. The king is assisted by a native parliament and a privy council. With the exception of a few Europeans in the Customs, Education, and Medical Departments, the whole of the Government officers are Tongans. The tariff resembles that of Fiji, and licences are charged for carrying on stores and trades. The revenue and expenditure in 1906 amounted to 32,500l. and 29,500l., respectively. According to the official returns the imports and exports were:

| Year | Imports | Exports |
|------|---------|---------|
| 1896 | 90,915 l 0 s 5 d | 91,602 l 4 s 5 d |
| 1897 | 74,561 l 5 s 11 d | 64,391 l 3 s 6 d |
| 1898 | 35,175 l 17 s 10 d | 39,461 l 7 s 5 d |
| 1899 | 74,124 l 4 s 1 d | 70,911 l 7 s 4 d |
| 1900 | 88,718 l 0 s 0 d | 106,793 l 0 s 0 d |
| 1901 | 64,259 l 0 s 0 d | 88,008 l 0 s 0 d |
| 1904 | 60,295 l 0 s 0 d | 86,125 l 0 s 0 d |
| 1905 | 76,868 l 0 s 0 d | 110,728 l 0 s 0 d |
| 1906 | 79,363 l 0 s 0 d | 137,583 l 0 s 0 d |

but the value of the copra exported in the years previous to 1904 is about 20 per cent. too high. The shipping in 1906 was 98,108 tons. The native population is about 21,000; the European about 240. The climate may be considered a healthy one. The thermometer ranges between 53 and 93 degrees Fahrenheit.

There are five churches, viz., the Wesleyan Mission Church (established over 60 years), with at present about 3,000 adherents only; the Wesleyan "Free Church of Tonga," with about 15,000 adherents; the Roman Catholic, with about 3,000 adherents; the "Free Church of England," founded by Mr. Shirley Baker, the number of whose adherents is unknown; and the Church of England recently established by Dr. Willis, late Anglican Bishop of Honolulu. The Free Church of Tonga was established in 1885, and considerable persecution was inflicted on the adherents of the Mission Church, generally styled "Fakaogo," i.e., subordinate to a foreign Church. In January, 1887, an attempt was made by some escaped native convicts on the life of Mr. Shirley Waldemar Baker, the Premier, an ex-Wesleyan missionary. Six persons charged with complicity in the attempt were shot. The attempt was made the pretext for increased persecution of the "Fakaogos," or members of the Wesleyan Mission Church, whose houses were pillaged, and who were beaten with clubs and whips till they declared their adhesion to the "Free Church." About 100, whom no ill-usage could induce to abandon the Mission Church, were ordered to be deported to Pylstart Island, a barren inhospitable islet south of Tonga, but they were finally allowed to go to Fiji. Shortly after an inquiry was made into the causes of the disturbances by Sir Charles Mitchell. At this inquiry the allegation that the attempt on Mr. Baker's life was due to a "Fakaogo" conspiracy was abandoned, and a letter written by Mr. Baker, purporting to be signed by the king, was addressed to Sir Charles Mitchell, promising an amnesty to political prisoners and freedom of worship. The services in the Mission Church at once recommenced.

In 1890 complaints were made that freedom of worship was still being interfered with; that persons were deprived of their lands and unjustly imprisoned on account of their adherence to the Wesleyan Church; and Tongan officials denied that the king had written to Sir Charles Mitchell promising to accord freedom of worship. Sir John Thurston therefore made a further inquiry, and finding that Mr. Baker was the principal cause of the wrongs endured by the Wesleyans, he, in accordance with the power conferred on the High Commissioner by the Western Pacific Orders in Council, issued an Order prohibiting Mr. Baker from being within the group for a term of two years from the 17th July, 1890. A few days before the issue of the Order, the king, on the request of the leading chiefs, had dismissed the Premier from office, and a fresh Government was formed with a native Premier (Tukahoe). Under the new Government the fullest freedom of worship was allowed, and the exiles were recalled from Fiji, the king having requested Sir John Thurston to make the necessary arrangements for their return.

King George Tubou died on 18th February, 1893, and was succeeded by his great-grandson, George Taufahau, under the title of Geo. Tubou II. The present Premier is Josateki I.
All the natives are taught to read and write, and higher education is provided by colleges established by the Government and by the Wesleyan Mission.

British and foreign subjects are subject to the jurisdiction of the Tongan Court only for offences against Tongan laws relating to customs, taxes, quarantine and local police, not recognised as offences against British law. In other respects they are subject to the jurisdiction of the Court of the High Commissioner.

By the Convention of 14th November, 1899, Germany renounced all rights over Tonga Islands, including Vavau, and over Savage Island (Nieué).

Early in 1900 Mr. Basil Thomson was sent out to Tonga by Her Majesty's Government, and concluded a Treaty with the king by which the latter placed himself and his territory under Her Majesty's protection. A protectorate was proclaimed by Mr. Thomson, in Tonga, and, by consent of the chiefs, in Savage Island also.

The Union Group consists of three small islands, Fakasafo, Oatafu, and Nukunono, about 9° S. latitude and 172° W. longitude. The islands are coral atolls, and the principal article of trade is copra. The natives are of Polynesian race, and are over 1,000 in number. They are ruled by their own chiefs, with the assistance of native councils. A British Protectorate has been proclaimed over this group. The inhabitants are either adherents of the London Missionary Society, or Roman Catholics.

The Ellice and Gilbert Groups consist of a series of coral atolls lying between 5° N. latitude and 10° S. latitude, and 170° to 180° E. longitude. The principal export is copra. The natives are of Malayo-Polynesian race, and number about 30,000, and are most of them adherents of American missions, or of the London Missionary Society. The islands have separate kings or chiefs, who are assisted by councils of chiefs and commoners. Labourers go for periods of three years to Fiji and Tahiti, and have also been recruited for Mexico. These groups have now been placed under British protection. Courts of law have been established amongst the natives, and a revenue is obtained from native contributions and trade licences, which covers the cost of maintaining a regular government in the islands. The efforts of Mr. C. R. Swayne, the first British Resident, and of his successor, Mr. W. T. Campbell, to establish an efficient system of administration have met with considerable success.

Ocean Island, or Paanopá, in lat. 0° 52' S., long. 169° 35' E., was annexed, and included in the jurisdiction of the Deputy Commissioner of the Gilbert and Ellice Protectorate in 1900.

The Southern Solomons consist of the islands of New Georgia, Guadalcanar, Malayta, San Christoval, Rennell, Bellona, and Stewart's Islands, and smaller islands in the vicinity of the above, lying between the 7th and 13th degrees of south latitude, and the 150th and 163rd degrees of east longitude. The natives are Melanesians. Stations have been established by the Melanesian Mission, but the converts are not numerous. The natives are treacherous; most of them are cannibals, and many of them are head-hunters. In 1896 an expedition from the Austrian war vessel "Albatros," while attempting the ascent of Mount Lammas, in Guadalcanar, was attacked, and severe loss of life ensued. There are a few resident traders, mostly of British nationality. A large number of natives used to go to work on plantations in Queensland, Fiji and Samoa, returning after the expiration of three years; but the number is less than formerly. The principal articles of trade are copra, pearl shell, and tortoise shell. The climate is not a good one. These islands were placed under British protection in 1893, and a resident has been appointed. His headquarters are at Tulagi, a small island on the north side of Guadalcanar. There is also a British magistrate stationed at the Island of Ghizo in the Northern Division. There is a fairly regular steam communication with Sydney, New South Wales. By the convention between Great Britain and Germany of 14th November, 1894, Germany recognised as falling to Great Britain those of the Solomon Islands, then belonging to Germany, which are situated to the east and south-east of Bougainville (which continues to belong to Germany, together with the islands of Buka forming part of it). Choiseul and Isabel thus came within the British sphere.

The Santa Cruz Islands are situated between the Solomon Islands and the New Hebrides Group. The natives are Melanesians, and are mostly adherents of the Melanesian Mission. The principal trade is in copra. These islands, together with the Duff and Reef Groups, Cherry, Mitre, and Tucopia Islands, were in 1898 included in the Southern Solomons Protectorate, and are now subject to the Regulations under which that Protectorate is administered.

The New Hebrides Group lies between the 12th and 20th degrees of south latitude, and the 165th and 170th degrees of east longitude. The natives are Melanesians, but in many places there is an admixture of Polynesian blood. The population has been estimated at from 100,000 to 140,000, but the Mission returns place it at only 50,000. Missions have been established by the Melanesian Missionary Society, by the Presbyterian churches of Australia, and by the Roman Catholic Church. The larger number of the natives are still cannibals. Life is, however, safer than in the Solomon Islands. Native labourers go to Queensland, Fiji, Samoa, and New Caledonia, but in much smaller numbers than formerly. There is a European population of about 631, mostly British or French. French and Australian companies have been formed for trading and planting purposes. A British steamer runs regularly between Sydney and the group, and a French steamer also runs from New Caledonia. The principal exports are copra and bananas; coffee, timber, and sulphur are also exported. The climate of most of the islands is bad, and malarial fever is prevalent. A joint commission, consisting of British and French naval officers, has been appointed to protect the lives and property of British and French subjects, and to maintain order. British and French Residents were appointed in 1902. In February, 1906, a conference of British and French officials took place in London, and a draft convention was prepared to provide for the settlement of land claims, and for an arrangement which would put an end to the difficulties arising from the absence of jurisdiction over the natives. A convention confirming the above-mentioned draft was signed in London on the 20th October, 1906. Its provisions include the establishment of a joint court and of an executive government consisting, for some purposes, of the British and French
representatives in the group acting in concert. For other purposes British and French nationals remain subject to the control only of their own authorities.

