SOUTHERN RHODESIA.

The limits of Southern Rhodesia, as defined by the Southern Rhodesia Order in Council, dated 20th October, 1898, are the parts of South Africa bounded by the Portuguese Possessions, by the Transvaal Colony to a point opposite the mouth of the River Shashi, by the River Shashi to its junction with the Tati and Ramaquaban rivers, thence by the Ramaquaban river to its source, thence by the watershed to the Rivers Shashi and Ramaquaban until such watershed strikes the Hunter's Road (called the Pandamatenka Road), thence by that road to the River Zambesi, and by that river to the Portuguese boundary. The said limits include an area of ten miles' radius round Fort Tuli, but exclude the area of the district known as the Tati district as defined by the Charter.

History.

On the 29th October, 1889, a Royal Charter was granted to the British South Africa Company, conferring upon it large powers of administration to carry out the objects for which it was formed, the principal being to extend northwards the railway and telegraph systems of the Cape Colony and Bechuanaland, to encourage emigration and colonisation, to promote trade and commerce, and to develop and work mineral and other concessions.

Early in 1890 a police force of Europeans was raised and equipped, and in June of that year, after obtaining permission from King Lobengula, a pioneer expedition on a large scale was organised to cut a road from a point on the Maclothase River, a tributary of the Limpopo, through the south-eastern part of Matabeleland into Mashonaland, the objective point of the expedition being Mount Hampden, near which large belts of gold-bearing quartz were known to exist. This point was duly reached, and Fort Salisbury, 12 miles South-east of Mount Hampden, having been founded (12th September, 1890) the pioneers were disbanded, and, in accordance with the agreement made with them, were allowed to peg off auriferous claims and farms.

In July, 1893, the Matabele made a raid into Mashonaland, and killed a number of natives living under the Company's protection, near Victoria, when they were attacked and driven back by the Company's police. After an unsuccessful attempt to arrange matters, preparations were made for the invasion of Matabeleland, to anticipate an expected attack on the Bechuanaland Protectorate and Mashonaland. The Company's police and a small force of volunteers and native allies advanced on Bulawayo from the east, while the Bechuanaland Police, which had been largely reinforced, advanced with Khami and some 2,000 of his men by way of Tati from the south. Two successful engagements were fought by the Company's forces near Bulawayo, in which the Matabele suffered very severely. The Bechuanaland police were also attacked by a strong force of Matabele, which they repulsed with great loss. Lobengula fled, and Bulawayo was occupied, and a force sent in pursuit of the king.

This force was unfortunately divided by the sudden rising of the River Shangani, and Major Wilson and a small party of men were, after a heroic resistance, killed to a man. Arrangements for the future administration of the country were completed by the High Commissioner and Mr. Rhodes on behalf of the Company. Lobengula, who was said to be endeavouring to escape across the Zambesi, is reported to have died from small-pox or fever.

In 1896, owing to a variety of causes, the Matabele broke out in rebellion, and shortly after the Mashonas followed suit. After a prolonged struggle the rebellion was subdued in September, 1897.

From 1897 to 1899 the development of the country advanced rapidly, but the outbreak of the war with the Republics, in October, 1899, practically put a stop to progressive work of every kind and the investment of Mafeking and the occupation by the Boers of a section of the railway in Bechuanaland cut the Territory completely off from communication with the South. During the operations that followed, a conspicuous part was played by the British South African Police and by Volunteers from the civilian population of Rhodesia, many of whom continued, after the relief of Mafeking, to serve until peace was declared in other parts of the theatre of War. It was estimated that the number of men contributed by Rhodesia, was approximately 1,500, being at least 12½ per cent. of the European population. Their good work earned frequent mentions in despatches and secured the special approbation of the Commander-in-Chief.

A brief account of the operations against the German territory in East and South-west Africa, and of the part played in the Great War by Southern and Northern Rhodesia, appears under the section Northern Rhodesia.

Constitution.

In 1888 that portion of Rhodesia now known as Southern Rhodesia was declared to be within the British sphere of influence, and on the 29th October, 1889, a Royal Charter was granted to the British South Africa Company, conferring upon it large powers of administration to carry out the objects for which it was formed.

At an Extraordinary General Meeting of the shareholders of the British South Africa Company, held on the 14th of December, 1899, a resolution was passed agreeing to accept the amendments proposed by Her Majesty's Government to be made in the original Charter of the Company by a Supplemental Charter, and a further resolution was passed approving certain alterations in the original Deed of Settlement of the Company.

The Constitution of Southern Rhodesia, originally laid down by the Charter, was subsequently amended by the Orders in Council of the 9th May, 1891; 30th July, 1891; and 18th July, 1894, the latter being known as the "Matabeleland Order in Council." This Order was revoked by the Southern Rhodesia Order in Council of 1898, which provides for the Administration of the Territory, Legislation, the Preservation of Peace and Order, the Constitution of Courts of Justice, and Native Administration. This Order was amended by several Orders in Council.

By a Proclamation, dated 10th June, 1891, the laws of the Cape Colony in force on that date were adopted for and are administered in Southern Rhodesia as far as the circumstances of the country will permit, unless amended or repealed by the Legislative Council. The laws of the Cape Colony passed subsequent to the 10th June, 1891, do not apply to Rhodesia.
Th
by ti
20th
boun
Tran
mou
to it
river
sour
Shas
stri
tenk
Zam
bow
mile
ares
defi

C
gra;
con
to
the
rali
Co
ant
an
co
ral
afi
a
in
Ri
so
la
M
be
wn
Sp
fe
di
nol

and a small party of men were, after resistance, killed to a man. Arrangements of the Cape Colony passed subsequent to the 10th June, 1891, do not apply to Rhodesia.
For the administration of justice there is a High Court with civil and criminal jurisdiction, the judges being appointed by the Governor. In the districts there are Magistrates' Courts. Appeals from the High Court lie to the Supreme Court of the Cape of Good Hope, and thence to the Privy Council.

Clause 33 of the Company's Charter reserved to the Crown the power at the end of twenty-five years from the date of the Charter, and at the end of every succeeding period of ten years, to add to or repeal any of the provisions of the Charter or to enact other provisions in substitution for or in addition to any of its existing provisions. It was further provided that this power should only be exercised in relation to so much of the Charter as related to administrative and public matters, and failing the exercise of this power the Charter was automatically extended for another ten years.

At the expiration of the first period of twenty-five years, viz., in October, 1914, His Majesty's Government, after ascertaining the views of the Company and of the Legislative Council of Southern Rhodesia, decided to advise the issue of a Supplemental Charter containing a provision that if during the ensuing ten years the Legislative Council should, by an absolute majority, pass a resolution praying the Crown to establish a responsible government, and should support it by evidence showing that the condition of the Territory, financially and in other respects, was such as to justify this course, it should be lawful for the Crown to make such alterations in the Charter as might be necessary for the purpose.

A Supplemental Charter, giving effect to this arrangement, was issued on 13th March, 1915.

In May, 1920, the Legislative Council passed a resolution praying that responsible government should be established forthwith in Southern Rhodesia. In March, 1921, the Secretary of State for the Colonies appointed a committee, of which Earl Buxton was chairman, to consider certain questions relating to Southern and Northern Rhodesia. The first report of the committee, dealing with Southern Rhodesia, recommended that the question whether that territory was or was not prepared to adopt responsible government should be decided at the earliest possible moment, and that a scheme for responsible government should be drawn up in detail and placed before the electors for their acceptance or rejection, by referendum rather than a general election.

In accordance with the recommendations of the report, the Secretary of State invited a deputation of the elected members of the Legislative Council to discuss with him the drafting of a provisional scheme of responsible government for Southern Rhodesia. The deputation came to London, and after confidential discussions returned to Southern Rhodesia in December, taking with it draft Letters Patent providing for the constitution of responsible government in that territory. These were shortly afterwards made public by the Secretary of State, who at the same time stipulated that the Government of the Union of South Africa should be approached with the object of ascertaining the terms upon which Southern Rhodesia could be admitted to the Union, and that the alternative policies should in due course be submitted to the people of Southern Rhodesia in the form of a Referendum.

The delegation proceeded to Cape Town, and as a result of conferences held by them with General Smuts and his ministers, an official memorandum was published on the 31st July, giving the terms which the Government of the Union was prepared to recommend to Parliament for the admission of Southern Rhodesia. The draft Letters Patent for responsible government and the terms of admission to the Union were placed before the electors at a Referendum on the 27th October, 1922, with the result that 8,774 voted for responsible government and 5,989 for joining the Union—a majority of 2,785 in favour of the former.

On the 12th September, 1923, the 23rd anniversary of the occupation of Mashonaland, the territory was formally annexed to the British Dominions with the title of "Colony of Southern Rhodesia," and on the 1st October following, the Colony was granted by Letters Patent responsible government under a constitution which provides for a legislature consisting of a Legislative Council and a Legislative Assembly of thirty members. Pending the election of the first Legislative Assembly, the constitution provided for the temporary continuance of the existing Legislative Council. Subject to reservations as to the alteration of the constitution, legislation in relation to native affairs and certain other matters, the Legislature may make all laws required for the peace, order and good government of the Colony.

The Governor is empowered to assent to a law passed by the legislature, withhold his assent or reserve the law for signification of the King's pleasure.

Appointments to the office of Minister are made by the Governor. They shall not exceed six in number, one of whom shall be the head of the ministry and is styled the Premier.

The Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Colony is assisted by an Executive Council. A session of the legislature is to be held once at least in every year. The duration of each house will be five years. Women are entitled to vote at elections.

Sir Drummond Chaplin retired from the post of Administrator of Southern Rhodesia on the grant of responsible government, and on the 1st October, 1923, Lieut.-Col. Sir John Robert Chancellor, G.C.M.G., D.S.O., assumed office as Governor and Commander-in-Chief.

Local Government.

Salisbury and Bulawayo were constituted municipalities in October, 1897, Gwelo and Umtali in August, 1914, and Gatooma in August, 1917. Sanitary Boards are appointed for the other principal towns.

Chief Towns.

The chief towns of Southern Rhodesia are Salisbury (the seat of the Government), Hartley, Gatooma, Umtali, and Victoria in Mashonaland; and Bulawayo, Gwelo, and Selukwe, in Matabeleland. Townships have also been formed at Rusapi, Gwanda, Enkeldoorn, Melsetter, Unvumvum, and at other places.

Railways.

The Bechuanaland Railways (now Rhodesia Railways, Limited) reached Bulawayo on the 19th October, 1897, and the line to that town was formally opened on the 4th November.
An extension of the Beira Railway from Umtali reached Salisbury on the 1st May, 1899, and was opened on the 22nd May. On the 1st August 1900, the widening of the gauge of the Beira Railway to 3 feet 6 inches, the standard gauge of South Africa, was completed. On the 6th October, 1902, the line was completed between Salisbury and Bulawayo, a distance of 301 miles, thus establishing through communication between Cape Town and Beira (over 2,000 miles). The line passes through the mining districts of Hartley, Queque, Gwelo, Bembezi, etc. The railway from Bulawayo to the Victoria Falls (282 miles) on the River Zambesi was completed in June, 1904, and the further extension northward into Northern Rhodesia, viz Kalomo, to the Broken Hill Mine, 374 miles from the Falls, was opened for traffic on 1st September, 1906. A further section of the line from Broken Hill to the Congo Border (132 miles) was completed in December, 1909, by the Rhodesia-Katanga Junction Railway and Mineral Company, Limited. There is, therefore, through communication between Cape Town and the northern border of Northern Rhodesia, a total distance of 2,149 miles. The Zambesi river is crossed by a bridge 850 feet long, 30 feet wide, and about 420 feet above the level of the water. The structure was formally opened by the late Sir G. H. Darwin, K.C.B., President of the British Association, on the 12th September, 1906.

The total mileage of the Rhodesian Railway Systems (including the Beira Railways) at the end of 1923 was 2,462 miles.

The Trans-Zambezia Railway was officially opened on the 1st July, 1922. The railway is 157 miles in length from its junction at Dondo with the Beira and Mashonaland trunk line, and the total distance from Beira to the Zambesi is 175 miles. The gauge of the line is the same as that in Rhodesia and Nyasaland.

Settlements with British South Africa Company.

In July, 1923, a settlement of the various outstanding questions relating to the Company's position in Southern and Northern Rhodesia was arrived at with His Majesty's Government. The effect of the settlement, which was conditional upon its acceptance by the shareholders and the approval of Parliament, was that the Company surrendered its rights and claims under the judgment of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council relating to Southern Rhodesia, and under the award of Lord Cave's Commission; that it surrendered its buildings and assets used for administrative purposes, and its land and monopoly rights other than mineral rights under its concessions in Northern Rhodesia; that on the other hand the Company would receive on 1st October a cash payment of £3,750,000, from His Majesty's Government, and would retain a half interest for 40 years in the net proceeds of the disposal of land in North-Western Rhodesia, such disposal to be in the hands of the administration of the territory; that it would receive the Crown's recognition of its mineral rights throughout Rhodesia, Southern and Northern, and a considerable measure of protection for its railway interests; and that the Crown would waive its whole claim against the Company in respect of extraordinary military expenditure incurred in the course of the Great War. Subject to the foregoing, the Company would retain the whole of its commercial rights and assets; no further question would be raised as to any liability of the Company in respect of land appropriated for the purpose of its own commercial undertakings or granted to other parties; and the Company would be relieved of the duty of carrying on the administration of Northern as well as of Southern Rhodesia. Consequently no further litigation or proceedings before the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council would be required. At an Extraordinary General Meeting held on the 24th July, 1923, the shareholders unanimously approved the provisional arrangement made with His Majesty's Government, and on the 25th July it was approved by the House of Commons. On the 1st October the Company received a cash payment from His Majesty's Government of £3,750,000.

The Board of the Company is at present constituted as follows:

Sir Henry Birchenough, Bart., K.C.M.G. (President).
Baron Emile Beaumont d'Erlanger.
Dougal O. Malcolm, Esq.
C. Hely-Hutchinson, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Lewis Michell, C.V.O.
The Most Hon. The Marquis of Winchester.
Sir Otto Beit, Bart., K.C.M.G.
His Grace The Duke of Abercorn, K.P.
Sir F. Drummond Chaplin, G.B.E., K.C.M.G., M.L.A.
Sir William Edgar Nicholls.
Edmund Davis, Esq.
Secretary, Lt.-Col. H. Marshall Hole, C.M.G.
Registrar, R. C. Bolton, Esq.
Chief Accountant, P. J. Baird, Esq., O.B.E., A.C.A.
General Manager in South Africa, Major P. S. Inskipp, O.B.E. M.L.A.

Climate.

The Rhodesian plateau lies at an altitude of from 3,000 to 6,000 feet above sea level. Broadly speaking, the year has two divisions, the wet and the dry season. The early rains of the wet season (which is the summer) gradually appear towards the end of October, increase in frequency and force until January, and disappear about the end of April. From May to September there is practically no rain. Taking into consideration the vast extent of the territory the climate naturally varies. In the highlands it is very healthy and bracing. Formerly, in the low-lying districts, malarial fever was very prevalent, but with the opening up of the country, better housing and food, it is rapidly disappearing. The summer is not oppressively hot, nor is the winter very cold. The average temperature shown by the maximum and minimum thermometers in the shade at the principal towns, is as follows:

| Location | Max °F | Min °F | Mean °F |
|----------|--------|--------|---------|
| Salisbury | 77.7   | 53.0   | 65.4    |
| Bulawayo  | 78.4   | 54.5   | 66.4    |
| Gwelo     | 78.8   | 51.8   | 65.3    |
| Umtali    | 78.9   | 56.2   | 67.6    |
The mean annual rainfall is 28.8 inches distributed as under:

| Region                  | Normal annual rainfall |
|-------------------------|------------------------|
| Western Matabeleland    | 26.1 ins               |
| South-Eastern Matabeleland | 21.2 "                 |
| Western Mashonaland     | 30.9 "                 |
| North-Eastern Mashonaland | 34.1 "                |
| South-Eastern Mashonaland | 31.7 "                |
| Eastern Border          | 56.0 "                 |

There are hospitals at Salisbury, Bulawayo, Umtali, Victoria, Hartley, Mazoe, Gwanda, Enkeldoorn, Gatooma, Abercorn, Sincoia, and Gwelo, each supplied with a complete staff of doctors and nurses. Cottage hospitals have also been erected in various districts to meet the wants of the mining centres.

**Population.**

At the Census for Southern Rhodesia which was taken on the 4th May, 1926, the European population was found to number 39,174 persons, and the coloured and Asiatic inhabitants 2,158 and 1,464 respectively. The permanent native population of the Colony was estimated to be 834,473 men, women, and children at the 31st December, 1925. The principal towns and their European inhabitants are: Salisbury (Capital), 7,324; Bulawayo, 8,251; Umtali, 1,951; Gwelo, 1,230; Gatooma, 602; and Que Que, 562.

Full details as to the administration of Rhodesia, and as to climate and products, with routes to and from Rhodesia, can be obtained at the office of the High Commissioner of Southern Rhodesia, Crown House, Aldwych, W.C.2. Sir F. J. Newton, K.C.M.G., C.V.O., was appointed the first High Commissioner in London in 1924.

Secretary, J. Collyer.

Government Agent at Cape Town.

F. B. Philip, M.B.E.

**Native Administration.**

The Letters Patent provide that there shall be a Native Department of Southern Rhodesia, the permanent head of which shall be appointed by the Governor-in-Council with the approval of the High Commissioner. The Department is administered by the Minister of Native Affairs. The duties of the Chief Native Commissioner are defined by High Commissioner's Proclamation No. 32 of 1913.

The Colony is divided into 32 native districts, each in charge of a Native Commissioner, who is appointed by the Governor, with the approval of the High Commissioner, as laid down in the Southern Rhodesia Order in Council, 1898, and whose duties are defined by the High Commissioner's Proclamation, No. 55 of 1910.

The estimated population of Indigenous Natives and other natives permanently settled in the Colony was, according to the last returns, 803,158, who are distributed as under:

- On reserves: 532,737
- On unalienated land: 122,160
- On alienated land: 151,912
- On mines, townships, etc.: 27,364

Total: 834,473

On the recommendations of the special commission (The Native Reserves Commission) appointed by the Imperial authorities, which recommendations His Majesty's Government decided to accept, a total area of 19,428,691 acres was set apart as native reserves for the sole and exclusive use of the native population. This has now been increased to 21,594,967 acres.

The Order in Council giving effect to the recommendations of this Commission, subject to certain minor adjustments, was issued on 10th November, 1920.

The only tax imposed upon the natives is an annual poll tax of £1. on each adult male native, and should such native have more than one wife a further tax of 10s. for each additional wife is payable.

The wages paid to unskilled native labourers vary from 15s. to 3l. per month, with board and lodging.

There is also an increasing number of skilled native artisans, who command a much higher rate of pay.

**Education.**

The number of public and aided schools for European children open in December, 1926, was 180, with 6,929 pupils. The public expenditure on education during the year 1925 was 243,791L, and the receipts from fees were 78,893L.

Native education was provided at 1,297 schools of different grades in the year 1925, all of which were under the control of missionary societies operating in Southern Rhodesia, inspection and financial aid on a capitulation basis being provided by Government. The number of pupils in these schools was 87,306, and the amount of grant earned by them (which is included in the total expenditure of the department) was 23,404L.

There were also open at the end of 1925, six public and aided schools for Eurasian and Asiatic children. At the end of December these had a total enrolment of 370 pupils. The expenditure on these schools, also included in the total expenditure of the department, was 2,960L, and a revenue of 117L. was received from school fees.

Owing to the munificent bequests of the late Cecil Rhodes and Alfred Beit, largely increased educational facilities are now afforded. Scholarships and Bursaries are granted to pupils in the country itself, and to matriculated Rhodesian students who continue their education at the various institutions of university standing in South Africa. In addition, there are nine "Rhodes Scholarships" (three per annum), which enable Rhodesian boys to take a three years' course at the University of Oxford.

**Minerals.**

GOLD.—That gold was obtained from Rhodesia in prehistoric times is evidenced from the innumerable "ancient workings," the ruins of temples and forts supposed to date from the time of the Himyarites and Phoenicians, and the discovery of gold beads, gold plates, fine chains, wire, nails, etc. From the occupation of the country in 1890 by the British South Africa Company when the European population amounted to about 500 persons, consisting of the pioneers and a few officials, up to September, 1898, the gold produced only amounted to 6,470 ounces. Since that date the mining industry has been greatly developed, and numerous
mines are producing gold. Large beds of coal of excellent quality are worked at Wankie, about 212 miles from Bulawayo, and 70 miles from the Victoria Falls on the River Zambesi, and the production of chrome iron ore and of asbestos is of importance in the markets of the world. The following shows the mineral output from Southern Rhodesia to 31st December, 1925:

| Mineral       | Output, 1925 | Output from commencement to 31/12/25 |
|---------------|-------------|-------------------------------------|
| Gold, oz      | 581,504     | 14,992,496                          |
| Gold, value...| $23,539,542 | $63,001,347                         |
| Silver, oz    | 153,705     | 3,700,406                           |
| Coal raised, tons | 759,718   | 8,108,282                           |
| Chrome Ore, tons | 135,837    | 1,225,997                           |
| Copper, tons  | 1,899       | 35,846                              |
| Asbestos, tons| 34,349      | 171,452                             |
| Mica, tons    | 146         | 636                                 |
| Arsenic, tons | 187         | 3,365                               |
| Diamonds, carats | 189        | 15,238                              |

In addition to the above, lead, tungsten ore, antimony, tin, corundum and barytes have been produced.

The total value of the mineral production for 1925 amounted to £4,134,260.

The total value of the mineral production from the commencement to 31st December, 1925, amounted to £78,272,886.

Lands and Agriculture.

Southern Rhodesia as a whole is a well watered country suitable in most parts for mixed farming. In some areas the rainfall is less generous, but here the excellence of the natural pastureage renders the conditions particularly favourable for ranching. European breeds of cattle do well, and in the experience of many breeders improved stock under proper management are as hardy as the native stock of the country. Prime slaughter bullocks command a ready sale and the dairy industry, though as yet in its infancy, is ever assuming increasing importance. Pigs thrive exceptionally well, the only limiting factor in pig raising being the markets. There are, however, at present two bacon factories in Southern Rhodesia, and many in the adjoining Territory of the Union. Under the influence of cattle farming, the long grass is being eaten down and made finer, and sheep are increasingly popular. In small flocks they promise to become a very profitable line in mixed farming. The poultry industry is well established and the monthly cheque from this source figures prominently on many farms.

Maize is the staple grain crop, and the Colony has specialised in the production of the flat whites used overseas chiefly for manufacturing purposes. The quality of Rhodesian maize is second to none, and in the season 1925-26 some 1,600,000 bags (203 lbs. weight) of this grain were grown by the European farmers.

The climate of the greater part of the Colony is sub-tropical and while maize remains the principal grain crop, European cereals are also grown together with potatoes, beans, buckwheat, linseed and oil yielding crops such as ground nuts and sunflower, the latter being sold to the local mills for oil extraction and any surplus being exported. Tobacco-growing is firmly established and production reaches about 3,000 tons annually. Many settlers, particularly those on the lighter types of soil, make this their main crop. Here the prospects for future development are of the brightest, for in addition to a strong demand in South Africa for Rhodesian leaf, manufacturers in Great Britain have expressed themselves able and willing to take at remunerative prices all the leaf the Colony is likely to produce for a number of years.

There are very good indications that parts of Southern Rhodesia will eventually become cotton producing areas. The success of the crop in 1923-24 led to an increased acreage being put down to cotton in 1924-25. The rate of increase, however, was too rapid for the supply of suitable seed available for planting. This, combined with the wettest season on record, materially affected the yield of cotton, but has not deterred the Southern Rhodesian farmers from continuing their efforts to make cotton one of their staple crops. The country is now equipped with first class facilities for ginning the cotton crop, and turning out high-density bales suitable for export to Liverpool and the Continent. The question of finding out the most suitable variety of cotton is receiving the attention of the Government, who have established a cotton breeding and Experiment Station at Gatooma, which is considered as being representative of some of the best, middle-veldt, cotton growing areas in the Colony. The Empire Cotton Growing Corporation are collaborating with the Government of Southern Rhodesia in their endeavour to establish the industry on a sound basis, and have sent out one of their staff of specialists, assisted by two plant breeders to advise and help forward what promises to be a flourishing industry.

The citrus fruit industry is expanding: export in 1924 was 52,961 standard boxes of fruit and by 1927 is expected to have reached the quarter million mark.

Southern Rhodesia offers many advantages to those seeking an opportunity for the investment of capital, to those looking for a country in which to settle and make homes and also to the tourist and big game hunter. Full information for prospective settlers can be obtained from the Director, Department of Lands, Salisbury. On the arrival of settlers in the country, this Department will also render assistance and advice towards their acquiring the necessary knowledge of local farming conditions, for obtaining training with well known and successful farmers and eventually, if desired, for the purchasing of land. No charge is made for these services, nor for similar assistance obtainable from the staff of the Department of Agriculture amongst whose members there are specialists dealing with each of the more important branches of the agricultural industry. Special efforts are made to safeguard the interests of new settlers in the matter of the purchase of land.

Crown Land in Southern Rhodesia may be acquired from the Department of Lands of the Government, subject to reasonable occupation conditions; the purchase price with interest at the rate of 5% per annum, being payable in forty half-yearly instalments, the first instalment being payable on taking up the land. A provisional deed of title is issued on payment of the first instalment, and a final deed of title on full payment of purchase price, provided the terms of the provisional deed have been fulfilled, and occupation and development effected for a period of ten years. The title deed gives the purchaser the freehold of the land subject to an annual payment of quit rent amounting approximately to one shilling for every fifty acres held.
Further information can be obtained from the High Commissioner for Southern Rhodesia, Crown House, Aldwych, London; and also from the Director, Department of Lands, Salisbury, Southern Rhodesia.

Customs and Excise.

Customs duties were first imposed in this Colony in 1899, and agreements were then entered into with the Cape Government and the Bechuanaland Protectorate Administration for a payment of the share of the duties collected upon goods removed from one territory to the other. These arrangements terminated in 1901, and until 1903 this Government collected the whole of its own duties.

Excise duties were imposed in 1901.

In 1903 this Colony joined the South African Customs Union, which terminated in 1910, owing to the Union of the Southern Colonies, and has been replaced by Customs agreements between this Colony and the Union, Northern Rhodesia, and the Territories of the South Africa High Commission.

The Customs Tariff provides for the suspension of duty upon certain necessaries, and for granting greater preference on British goods under the Order in Council, generally known as the Rhodes' Clause.

The estimated value (exclusive of Customs Duty) of merchandise entered for consumption in Southern Rhodesia, as compared with the value of exports, for the preceding four years is shown in the table below. In these figures the value of specie has been excluded.

| Imports | Exports |
|---------|---------|
| £       | £       |
| 1921   | 5,091,896 | 4,747,145 |
| 1922   | 3,764,160 | 4,593,234 |
| 1923   | 3,458,433 | 5,262,656 |
| 1924   | 3,902,324 | 5,547,646 |
| 1925   | 4,712,846 | 5,690,492 |

Customs Houses are established at the following ports of entry, viz.:—Beira, Bulawayo, Gwelo, Plumtree, Salisbury, and Umtali.

Posts and Telegraphs.

The mails to and from the United Kingdom and Southern Rhodesia are conveyed by the mail steamers of the Union-Castle Company between Southampton and Cape Town. From Cape Town they are conveyed by rail to Bulawayo in 2 days 16 hours, and to Salisbury in 3 days 16 hours.

On the 31st of December, 1925, 166 post offices were open in Southern Rhodesia, at 35 of which Money Order and Savings Bank business was transacted. Telegraph Money Orders are also exchanged with Northern Rhodesia, Mozambique, the Union of South Africa, the United Kingdom, and Nyasaland.

The rate for inland letters is 1d. per oz. The rate for letters to the Union of South Africa, Northern Rhodesia, and Mozambique is 1½d. per oz. For letters to Belgian Congo and all foreign countries the rate is 3½d. for the first oz. and 1½d. for each additional oz.; to the United Kingdom and all British possessions, except those mentioned above, the rate is 2½d. per oz.

The Southern Rhodesia Telegraph and Telephone system extends from Ramathalaba, on the northern border of the Cape Province, to Zinto in Portuguese East Africa, and comprises 8,963 miles of wire, on 3,587 miles of poles.

At the 31st December, 1925, there were 123 telegraph offices open. The rate for Inland telegrams is 1s. for 12 words and 1½d. for each additional word; between Southern Rhodesia and the Union of South Africa, Northern Rhodesia and Portuguese East Africa (Lourenco Marques), 2s. for every 12 words and 2½d. per word thereafter; for Belgian Congo the rate is 5s. for 12 words and 5½d. for each additional word. To places served by the Beira Railway Telegraph Offices in Mozambique the rate is 1s. 6d. for every 12 words and 1½d. for each additional word, whilst to places in the same territory served by the Trans-Zambesia Railway the rate is 1s. for 12 words and 4½d. for each additional word. To places on the African Trans-Continental Telegraph Line and Shire Highland Railway Telegraph Offices the rate is 5s. for the first 12 words and 6½d. for each additional word. To Tanganyika, 7s. 6d. and 7½d.; Kenya Colony and Uganda, 13s. 6d. and 1s. 1½d. for the first 12 words and each additional word respectively.

Telegrams and cablegrams from South Africa and Europe for the Provinces of Manica and Sofala, including Chinde and Quelimane (Portuguese East Africa), Nyasaland Protectorate, etc., pass over Southern Rhodesian lines.

The rate for Cablegrams to Europe is 2s. 2½d. per word, deferred rate 1s. 1½d. per word. Letter cablegrams 1½s. 8½d. for twenty words, and 7½d. per word thereafter. Week-end Letter cablegrams (T.W.T.) 9s. 2½d. for twenty words and 5½d. per word thereafter.

The Post Office Savings Bank was established in 1905. Up to the 31st December, 1925, the amount deposited was 1,960,369L., and the amount withdrawn was 1,793,514L. 181,755L. was invested in Trustee Securities at the latter date.

Revenue and Expenditure (Southern Rhodesia).

| Year     | Revenue | Expenditure |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| 1916-1917 | £736,128 | £751,086 |
| 1917-1918 | £737,443 | £790,470 |
| 1918-1919 | £887,800 | £888,913 |
| 1919-1920 | £1,063,396 | £1,082,372 |
| 1920-1921 | £1,367,827 | £1,350,005 |
| 1921-1922 | £1,506,429 | £1,335,041 |
| 1922-1923 | £1,326,469 | £1,357,442 |
| 1923-1924 | £1,521,881 | £1,355,929 |
| 1924-1925 | £1,599,455 | £1,591,746 |
| 1925-1926 | £1,842,283 | £1,752,254 |

Southern Rhodesia Government.

Governor, Lieut.-Colonel Sir John R. Chancellor, G.C.M.G., G.C.V.O., D.S.O., R.E., 4,000L., 1,000L. personal allowance and 1,000L. entertainment allowance.

Secretary, W. C. Robertson.

A.D.C., Capt. H. G. Gregory-Smith, The Black Watch (Royal Highlanders).
Executive Council.

The Governor and Members of the Ministry.
Clerk of Council, W. C. Robertson.

Members of the Ministry.

Premier, Sir C. P. J. Coghlain, K.C.M.G.
Colonial Secretary, W. M. Leggate, C.M.G.
Treasurer, P. D. L. Fynn, C.M.G.
Attorney-General and Minister of Defence, R. J. Hudson, M.C., K.C.
Minister of Mines and Public Works, H. U. Moffat.
Minister of Agriculture and Lands, J. W. Downie.

Members of the Legislative Assembly.

Electoral District.

Salisbury . . . . The Hon. P. D. L. Fynn, C.M.G.
G. M. Huggins, F.R.C.S.
Capt. H. Bertin.
G. F. Elcombe.

Northern . . . . The Hon. W. M. Leggate, C.M.G.
J. M. Eaton.

Mazoe . . . . The Hon. J. W. Downie.
Major P.S.Inskipp,O.B.E.

Eastern . . . . C. E. Gillilan.
J. L. Martin.

Umtali . . . . C. Eichoff.
Mrs. E. Tawse Jollie.

Hartley . . . . Sir E. W. S. Montagu.
Lieut.-Col. O. C. Du Port, D.S.O.

Midlands . . . . R. D. Gilchrist.
Major W. J. Boggie.

Gwelo . . . . Lieut.-Col. D. C. D. Munro, D.S.O., M.C., D.C.M.
M. Danziger.

Victoria . . . . The Hon. H. U. Moffat.
L. K. Robinson.

Bulawayo . . . . The Hon. Sir C. P. J. Coghlain, K.C.M.G.
Major The Hon. R. J. Hudson, M.C., K.C.
F. L. Hadfield.
J. Cowden.
Col. C. F. Birney, D.S.O.
H. R. Barbour.
F. P. Menell.
A. R. Thompson.

Western . . . . R. A. Fletcher.
J. P. Richardson.

Speaker, The Hon. L. Cripps.
Clerk of the Legislative Assembly, J. G. Jearey.

Division of the Premier.

Premier's Department.

Premier and Minister of Native Affairs, Sir C. P. J. Coghlain, K.C.M.G.
Secretary to the Premier, J. G. Jearey.

Chief Native Commissioner's Department.

Chief Native Commissioner, Sir H. J. Taylor.
Assistant Chief Native Commissioner, H. M. G. Jackson, O.B.E.

Native Commissioners.

Mashonaland:—

Bikita, H. N Watters
Charter, J. W. Posselt
Chibit, H. N. Hemans
Chilimunzi, J. H. M.
Sweeney
Darvoin, D. M. Powley
Gutu, E. W. Morris
Hartley, I. F. Bibra
Inyangu, W. S. Bazeley
Lomagundi, E. G. Howman
Makoni, D. H. Moodie

Marandellas, F. W. T.
Posselt
Mazoe, W. A. Devine
Melsetter, N. P. M. Nielsen.
Mrema, W. Edwards
Mtoko, E. G. Lenthall
Ndanga, E. R. Morkel
Salisbury, Major R. C.
Nesbitt, V.C.
Umtali, F. G. Elliott
Victoria, C. L. Carbutt

Matabeleland:—

Belingwe, C. Bullock
Bubi, S. W. Greer
Butalima - Mangwe, R.
Lanning
Butawayo, S. N. G.
Jackson
Gwanda, F. A. Yates
Gwelo, C. T. Stuart
Insiza, T. M. Thomas
Matopo, W. R. Benzie

Nyamandhlovu, J. S.
Harris
Sebungwe, J. Stap (ag.)
Selukwe, F. J. Wane
Umzingwane, A. L.
Jones
Wankie,A.St.J.Harvey
'Relieving Native Commissioner, G. G. B.
Woods

Superintendents of Natives.

Victoria, C. L. Carbutt.
Umtali, F. G. Elliott.
Matabeleland, S. N. G. Jackson.
Director of Native Development (vacant).

Division of the Treasurer.

Treasurer's Department.

Treasurer, P. D. L. Fynn, C.M.G.
Secretary, A. W. Beadle.
Accountant, E. T. Fox, O.B.E. (acting).
Principal Revenue Examiner, A. G. Williams.

Postmaster-General's Department.

Postmaster-General, A. E. Holloway.
Secretary, P. G. Hunt.
Accountant, C. J. Swift.

Customs and Excise Department.

Controller of Customs and Excise, A. G. Pett.
Chief Clerk, C. F. Cranswick (acting).
Collectors, S. M. Symons, J. R. B. Baxter, S. Ashley (acting).
Agent, Rhodesia Customs, Beira, E. A. Crake.

Taxes Department.

Commissioner of Taxes, H. A. Cloete.
Senior Assessor, F. D. Winskill.
Accountant, T. J. Needham.
Assessors, A. H. P. Strachan, E. C. Jenkins.

Audit Department.

Auditor General, R. H. Everett.
Assistant Auditor and Inspector, E. D. Smith.
Inspector, O. Cartwright.
Senior Examiner, S. H. C. Palgrave.
DIVISION OF THE MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE AND LANDS.

Minister of Agriculture and Lands, J. W. Downie.

Department of Agriculture.

Secretary, Department of Agriculture, D. McDonald.

Chief Agriculturist, H. G. Mundy, Dip. Agric., F.L.S.

Chief Entomologist, R. W. Jack, F.K.S.

Acting Chief Chemist, A. W. Facer, B.A.

Acting Irrigation and Agricultural Engineer, C. L. Robertson, B.Sc., A.M.I.C.E.

Acting Hydrographic Engineer, N. P. Sellick, B.Sc.

Forest Officer, J. S. Henkel, Dip. in Forestry, Cooper's Hill.

Poultry Expert, A. Little.

Stock Adviser, W. Fleming.

Tobacco and Cotton Expert (Matabeleland), D. D. Brown.

Tobacco Advisers, A. C. Newton, B.Sc., and E. M. Matthews, B.Sc.

Mycologist, J. C. Hopkins, B.Sc., A.I.C.T.A.

Cotton Specialist (Empire Cotton Growing Corporation), G. C. Cameron.

Botanist, F. Eyles, F.L.S.

Editor, Rhodesia Agricultural Journal, W. E. Meade.

Statistician, A. B. Bell.

Dairy Expert, T. Hamilton, M.A., N.D.D.

Department of Lands.

Director, Department of Lands, and Surveyor-General, W. J. Atherton.

Acting Assistant Director, Department of Lands, A. C. Jennings, A.M.I.C.E.

Veterinary Department.

Chief Veterinary Surgeon, J. M. Sinclair, M.R.C.V.S.

District Veterinary Surgeons, G. C. Hooper-Sharpe, M.R.C.V.S., P. D. Huston, M.R.C.V.S., C. F. Johnston, M.R.C.V.S., M. H. Kingcome, M.R.C.V.S., J. D. Ferguson, M.R.C.V.S., J. Park Hamilton, M.R.C.V.S., B. A. Myhill, M.R.C.V.S., B. L. King, M.R.C.V.S., G. Gordon, M.R.C.V.S., J. D. Coutta, M.R.C.V.S.

Assistant District Veterinary Surgeon, H. K. Hesketh.

Department of Veterinary Research.

Director, Veterinary Research, Lt. E. W. Bevan, M.R.C.V.S.

DIVISION OF MINISTER OF MINES AND PUBLIC WORKS.

Mines and Roads Department.

Minister of Mines and Public Works, H. U. Moffat.

Secretary for Mines and Public Works, A. C. Bagshawe.

Mining Commissioners, C. D. Fleming, B. A. M. Helm, E. E. F. Blackwell, K. H. Borcherds.

Registrar of Claims, S. B. Morris.

Inspectors of Mines, C. A. B. Colville, H. C. Milton.

Accountant, Mines and Works, T. H. M. Tobiloook.

Chief Road Engineer, Stuart Chandler.

Divisional Road Engineer, E. Greenhields, W. D. Harris, W. T. Brind, H. Oliver, S. Rogers.

Department of Public Works.

Director, A. Duff.

Assistant Architect, B. B. Bowley.

Geological Survey.

Director, H. B. Maufe, B.A., F.G.S.

Geologists, B. Lightfoot, M.C., M.A., A. M. Macgregor, B.A., F.G.S.

DIVISION OF COLONIAL SECRETARY.

Colonial Secretary's Department.

Colonial Secretary, W. M. Leggate, C.M.G

Secretary, C. E. Duff.

Chief Clerk, C. P. L. Matthews.

Education Department.

Director of Education, L. M. Foggin, O.B.E.

Inspectors of Schools, S. de J. Lenfestey, A. R. McKenzie, J. Condy.

Chief Clerk, J. S. Blackwell.

Financial Clerk, G. E. S. Gilliland.

Department of Controller of Printing and Stationery.

Controller, A. F. Davis.

DIVISION OF ATTORNEY GENERAL.

Law Department.

Attorney General and Minister of Defence, Major R. J. Hudson, M.C., K.C.

Solicitor-General and Judge of Water Court, R. Molwaine, K.C., M.A., LL.B.

Legal Adviser and Secretary, Law Department, A. E. Speight, B.A., LL.B.

Legal Assistant, W. E. Thomas, B.A., LL.B.

Registrar of Deeds, Companies, and Patents, G. J. King, O.B.E.

Registrar of Deeds (Bulawayo), A. R. Tonge.

District Courts.

Mashonaland.

Salisbury:—

Civil Commissioner, G. J. King.

Magistrate, J. P. L. de Smith.

Assistant Magistrate, J. S. Crossley.

Enkeldoorn:—

Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, C. M. Fletcher.

Umtali:—

Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, N. H. Chataway.

Assistant Magistrate, C. Deane Simmons.

Melsetter:—

Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, L. F. H. Roberts.

Victoria:—

Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, C. W. Cary.

Assistant Magistrate, C. L. G. Wright.

Hartley:—

Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, F. J. Clarke.

Assistant Magistrate, N. D. Jackson.

Matabeleland.

Bulawayo:—

Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, P. G. Smith.

Assistant Magistrate, M. W. Barnard.

Gwole:—

Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, A. L. Baker.

Assistant Magistrate, Capt. C. H. Harding, M.C.
Gwanda:—
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, F. A. Yates.
Assistant Magistrate, S. D. Caldecott.

Que Que:—
Assistant Magistrate, W. A. Brooks.

Defence Department.
Commandant, Colonel H. W. M. Watson, C.M.G., D.S.O.
Chief Staff Officer, Major G. Parson, D.S.O., B.S.A.P.
District Staff Officers, Capt. W. C. Hoaten, B.S.A.P., Capt. H. Harnell, B.S.A.P., Lieut. J. W. Watson, B.S.A.P.
Secretary, Department of Defence, Lieut.-Col. E. Hope Carson, D.S.O., M.C., V.D.
Controller, Defence Force, Major L. S. Dacomb, O.B.E., B.S.A.P.
Assistant Controllers, Defence Force, Lieut. F. H. Warnock Fielden, B.S.A.P., Lieut. H. P. P. Tice, B.S.A.P.
Staff Officer, War Records, Capt. F. O'Dell, B.S.A.P.

British South Africa Police.
Commissioner, Lieut.-Col. G. Stops.
District Superintendents, Major J. S. Ingham, Major H. J. K. Brereton, Capt. C. E. Pitt-Schenkel, Capt. W. J. Phillips, O.B.E., Capt. R. Hamilton, Capt. J. S. Bridger, Capt. H. T. Onyett, M.C., Hon. Capt. W. Lawrence.
Assistant District Superintendents, Lieut. H. Rochester, Lieut. H. Bugler, Lieut. F. C. Edwards, M.M., Lieut. A. V. Adams, Lieut. J. M. W. Parr, Lieut. J. E. Ross, Lieut. H. F. M. Surgey, Lieut. J. H. S. Adam, Lieut. J. Appleby.

Town Police.
Superintendent, Hon. Capt. D. McLean.
Assistant Superintendent, Lieut. T. G. McElligott.

Criminal Investigation Department.
Chief Superintendent, Capt. J. C. Brundell.
Superintendent, H. Hammond, M.B.E.
Superintendent, J. S. Morris.
Assistant Superintendent, H. W. Clemow.

High Court.
Senior Judge, Murray Bissett, K.C.
Judge, A. F. Russell.
Master, Registrar and Sheriff, F. G. Brooks.

Public Health Department.
Medical Director, Chief Health Officer, and Inspector, Registrar of Births and Deaths and Principal Medical Officer, B.S.A.
Police, Dr. A. M. Fleming, C.M.G., C.B.E., M.B., F.R.C.S., Edin., D.P.H., Camb.
Medical Superintendent, Ingutheni Mental Hospital, and Senior Government Medical Officer, Bulawayo, Dr. F. H. Ellis, M.C.
Medical Inspector of Schools, Dr. H. V. A. Gatchell.
Chief Clerk, B. F. Wright.
Senior Clerk, C. S. Honey.
Senior Government Medical Officers, Dr. A. J. MacKenzie, Dr. F. P. Maitland, Dr. O. E. Jackson, Dr. A. P. Martin.
Government Medical Officers, Dr. D. J. O'Keefe, Dr. W. G. Rose.

Assistant and Relieving Government Medical Officers, Dr. T. J. Williams, Dr. C. J. Lyons, Dr. P. Wallies, Dr. V. C. W. Vickers, Dr. E. P. Carnody, Dr. P. H. Henson, Dr. Grantley Barratt, Dr. M. H. K. Kane, Dr. M. Pearson, Dr. T. D. McLaren, Dr. H. J. Plo-wright, Dr. J. S. Liptz, Dr. C. W. Robertson, Dr. R. J. W. Burrell, Dr. A. J. Patton, Dr. R. M. Morris.
Additional Health Officer, Bacteriologist and Director of Pasteur Institute, Dr. L. J. J. Orpen.
Senior Matron, Miss L. A. Adlam.

NAURU.

Nauru (0° 26' S., 166° 56' E.), an uplifted atoll, about 12 miles in circumference, was discovered by Captain Fearn in 1798, and was annexed by Germany in 1888. It has an area of nearly 84 square miles. There is a ring of low and fertile land between the sea and a plateau about 40 to 60 feet above sea level. The plateau contains extensive deposits of phosphate bearing rock.

Nauru was surrendered to H.M.A.S. "Melbourne" in November, 1914, and, at the request of the Commonwealth Government, was administered under the High Commissioner for the Western Pacific until June 10th, 1921. A mandate conferred by the Principal Allied and Associated Powers on the British Empire to administer Nauru was approved by the Council of the League of Nations in December, 1920.

By an agreement of 2nd July, 1919, confirmed by the Nauru Island Agreement Act 1920 and by the Parliaments of the Commonwealth of Australia and New Zealand, the British Government and the Governments of the Commonwealth and New Zealand agreed that the island should be governed by an Administrator, the first to be appointed for a term of 5 years by the Commonwealth Government. The agreement also provided for the working of the phosphate deposits. The exclusive right to work these deposits was granted by the German Government to a German company, which transferred it in 1905 to the Pacific Phosphate Company, a company registered in Great Britain, which commenced to work the deposits in 1906. In 1920 the interests of the Company in Nauru and in the phosphate deposits of Ocean Island were purchased by the British, Commonwealth, and New Zealand Governments. By the agreement between the three Governments, the deposits in Nauru were vested in, and the working and sale of the phosphates entrusted to, a Board of three Commissioners, one appointed by each Government. In 1922, 182,170 tons, in 1923, 212,300 tons, in 1924, 280,990 tons, and in 1925, 224,260 tons of phosphates were exported, mainly to Australia and New Zealand. The only other export is a small quantity of copra.

The population in 1926 numbered about 2,217; of these, 1,251 were natives of Nauru, 822 Chinese, and 117 Europeans, the remainder being South Sea Islanders other than Nauruans.

Administrator, Brigadier-General T. Griffiths.

Statistics.

| Year | Revenue | Expenditure | Imports | Exports |
|------|---------|-------------|---------|---------|
| 1922 | £11,182 | £11,424     | £78,320 | —       |
| 1923 | £11,837 | £10,266     | £58,636 | —       |
| 1924 | £17,066 | £14,362     | £100,253| —       |
| 1925 | £15,174 | £15,256     | £63,575 | £115,530|
PART II.—C. HISTORICAL AND STATISTICAL ACCOUNT, WITH PUBLIC ESTABLISHMENTS, OF THE COLONIES AND OTHER TERRITORIES WITH WHICH THE COLONIAL OFFICE IS CONCERNED.

