TRANS-JORDAN.

A strip of country fringing the Syrian desert and extending from Syria in the north to the Gulf of Akaba in the south forms the territory known as Trans-Jordan. It is divided from Palestine by the River Jordan and the Dead Sea.

The frontier between Nejd and Trans-Jordan starts in the north-east from the point of intersection of meridian 39°E. and parallel 32°N., which marks the termination of the frontier between Nejd and Iraq, and proceeds in a straight line to the point of intersection of meridian 37°E. and parallel 31°30'N., and thence along meridian 37°E. to the point of its intersection with parallel 31°25'N. From this point, it proceeds in a straight line to the point of intersection of meridian 38°E. and parallel 30°N., leaving all projecting edges of the Wadi Sirhan in Nejd Territory, and thence proceeds along meridian 38°E. to the point of its intersection with parallel 29°35'N.

The southern boundary of Trans-Jordan is yet to be defined.

The northern portion of Trans-Jordan consists of elevated country, rising to 3,600 to 4,000 feet above sea level, which on the western margin falls abruptly to the narrow fertile plain of the Jordan valley, and on the eastern falls more gradually to grass lands through which runs the Hejaz Railway line and which gradually merged into the desert.

The grass land strip forms the summer pastures of Bedouin tribes who in the winter move further east for pasturage. West of the railway are the wheat and barley lands of the Kerak, Balqa and Ajlun tribes as well as of the Circassian colonies in the Balqa and the numerous Arab villages in the north. Perennial water is found in the deep lateral valleys but the fertile land of the Jordan depression is only used as winter grazing ground by semi-nomad tribes. In the north there are a number of large villages, but the only towns of any size are Amman, Salt and Kerak.

No census has been taken but the population is believed to be about 200,000.

His Britannic Majesty is the Mandatory for Trans-Jordan, to which the terms of the Mandate for Palestine, with the exception of the provisions dealing with the establishment of a national home for the Jewish people, are applicable. The declaration of His Majesty's Government with regard to its Mandatory obligations in Trans-Jordan made to the Council of the League of Nations in September, 1922 (Cmd. 1786) was in the following terms:

"In the application of the Mandate to Trans-Jordan, the action which in Palestine is taken by the Administration of the latter country, will be taken by the Administration of Trans-Jordan under the general supervision of the Mandatory.

His Majesty's Government accept full responsibility as Mandatory for Trans-Jordan and undertake that such provision as may be made for the administration of that country in accordance with Article 25 of the Mandate shall be in no way inconsistent with those provisions of the Mandate which are not by this resolution declared inapplicable."

The Mandatory is represented in Trans-Jordan by the Chief British Representative, assisted by a few British officers and a small clerical staff. The Chief British Representative acts under the instructions of the High Commissioner for Palestine.

A local Arab Administration has been formed under His Highness the Emir Abdullah ibn Hussain, G.B.E. (son of ex-King Hussain of the Hejaz and brother of King Faisal of Iraq), assisted by a staff of Arab advisers.

Amman is the capital, while Salt, Kerak, Irbid and Ma'an are headquarters of District Governors.

The Ottoman Code is in operation with but few changes. The official language is Arabic.
The system of taxation is unchanged from the Turkish, although additional contributions have been levied for special educational or religious purposes. In its incidence, however, taxation has been most uneven, for it is only in the Balqa that the tithe is collected, while Kerak and Irbid pay a specific sum in commutation.

Palestine pays Trans-Jordan an annual sum of £E.18,950 on account of the Customs Duties collected on goods of foreign origin which are re-exported to Trans-Jordan. The Syrian Government also refunds the duty collected on articles of foreign origin when re-exported to Trans-Jordan; and Trans-Jordan in addition collects a further small percentage of the value of the goods as assessed at Damascus. Until May, 1924, the import duty into Syria was 11 per cent., but was then raised to 15 per cent. on goods exported from States members of the League of Nations, and to 30 per cent. on others. Trans-Jordan collects a duty of 100 per cent. on imported alcohol and a duty of 50 per cent. on imported tobacco.

Until 1926, public security in Trans-Jordan was maintained by a locally-recruited force known as the Arab Legion and a number of civil police in the larger towns. In 1926 these forces were reorganised. A military force called the Trans-Jordan Frontier Force was raised in Palestine and Trans-Jordan for the defence of the two territories, and police duties in Trans-Jordan were entrusted to a civil police force, to which the old name of the Arab Legion was given.

Chief British Representative, Lieut.-Col. C. H. F. Cox, C.M.G., D.S.O., £E.1,200.
First Assistant, C. F. Reading, O.B.E., £E.750 by £E.25 to £E.950.

Trans-Jordan Administration.
Emir, H. H. Abdullah ibn Hussain, G.B.E.
Chief Minister, Hassan Khalid Pasha Abul Huda.
Minister of Justice and Kadi el Kuda, Sheik Husam el Din Jarallah.
Judicial Adviser, C. R. W. Seton, M.C.
Financial Adviser, A. L. Kirkbride, O.B.E.
Keeper of Antiquities, Riza Bey Tewfik.
Director of Public Works, Abdul Rahman Eff. Ghonayib.
Director of Health, Dr. Halim Abu Rahmeh.
O.C. Arab Legion, Capt. F. G. Peake, C.B.E.
Second in Command, Arab Legion, E. R. S. Stafford.

OTHER MISCELLANEOUS POSSESSIONS.

