BRITISH NEW GUINEA.

Situation and Area.

New Guinea, the largest island in the world if we exclude Australia, lies some 80 miles to the north of Queensland, between 0° 0' and 12° 0' S. lat., and between 130° 50' and 154° 30' E. long. Its greatest length is 1,490 miles, and its maximum breadth 430 miles; its area being about 234,768 square miles.

The island is now divided between Holland, Germany, and this country; the areas claimed by Great Britain being about 88,000 square miles. The boundaries of the Colony are as follows:—

The S. and S.E. shores of New Guinea, from 141° E. long, eastward as far as East Cape, and thence N.W. to 8° S. lat. in the neighbourhood of Mitre Rock, together with the territory lying south of a line from Mitre Rock, proceeding along the said 8th parallel to 147° E. long., then in a straight line N.W. to the intersection of 6° S. lat. and 144° E. long., and continuing W.N.W. to the intersection of 5° S. lat. and 141° E. long., together with the Trobriand, Woodlark, D'Entrecasteaux, and Louisiade groups of islands, and all other islands lying between 8° and 12° S. lat., and between 141° and 155° E. long., and not forming part of Queensland; and including all islands and reefs lying in the Gulf of Papua to the north of 8° S. lat.

Description.

The northern coast of the island is generally hilly, and the mountains stretch away from it inland, rising in some cases to a height of 17,000 or 18,000 feet. The south coast also, to the east of Torres Straits, presents similar features, and a great mountain range appears to stretch across the island approximately along the 4th parallel of latitude. To the west of Torres Straits the south coast is low and swampy, no hills being visible. Over a great part of the island dense forests appear to prevail, clothing the mountains to a height of several thousand feet with timber of enormous height, covered and matted together with a dense undergrowth of brushwood, ferns, and lycopodiums. The coco palm grows everywhere, and the sago palm abounds on the south coast, and its produce forms a considerable part of the exports of the island. Figs are also common, and ginger, cardamum, betel, pineapple, nutmeg, cotton, and other smaller growths are found.

The bulk of the population is of the pure Papuan type, of a sooty brown colour, medium height, and general appearance somewhat negroid. At various points of the coast however the intermixture of Polynesian and Malayan blood has modified the native Papuan physically and mentally, and the coast tribes as a rule are superior in resources and civilization to those of the interior. Some of the tribes in the north-west, in the Arfak mountains and elsewhere, are very degraded, and with barely the rudiments of social organization; and cannibalism and head-hunting are practised here and there throughout the island.

History.

The island was first discovered in 1511 by Antonio de Abrea, and was occasionally touched at by the early navigators, but no settlement was made until the Dutch annexed some parts of the western coast in the 18th century, as adjuncts to their Batavian Colony. In 1793 the East India Company formally annexed the island, and formed a small post at Geelonk Bay. This was however soon abandoned. During the present century the coasts have been explored by Dutch, British, and German navigators, and several explorers have penetrated into the interior, but owing to the great natural difficulties to be overcome only a short distance from the coasts has been reached.

The whole island to the west of 141 E. long. is claimed by the Dutch as suzerains of the Sultan of Tidore, to whom the tribes along the coast were accustomed to pay tribute. The acquisition of the remainder of the island by this country was long advocated by Australian statesmen, and the growing influence of France and Germany in the Pacific Ocean, coupled with the establishment of a penal settlement by the former in New Caledonia, created considerable alarm lest a country lying so near the shores of Australia should pass into the possession of a foreign power. To prevent this the Government of Queensland annexed the country, on the 4th of April, 1883, but this proceeding was not ratified by the Imperial Government, and consequently fell to the ground. The Intercolonial Convention held at Sydney in Nov. and Dec. 1883, passed resolutions urging the annexation of Eastern New Guinea, and undertaking to recommend to their respective legislatures to provide for defraying, in proportion to population, a part of the cost of maintaining the protectorate. Upon this the Imperial Government decided that if one or more of the colonies would guarantee 15,000£ a year they would appoint a high commissioner for the south-eastern part of New Guinea, and take steps for establishing his jurisdiction. The various colonies readily agreed to contribute their quota of the sum required, and on the 6th November, 1884, Commodore Erskine, in H.M.S. "Nelson," hoisted the British flag at Port Moresby, and proclaimed a protectorate over the south coast and the adjacent islands. The northern boundary was finally fixed by arrangement with Germany.

General Sir Peter Scratchley was appointed Special Commissioner for the Protectorate, and arrived in 1885, but succumbed shortly after to malarial fever. He was succeeded by the Hon. John Douglas, C.M.G., formerly Premier of Queensland. At the Colonial Conference in 1887, the Colonies of Queensland, N.S. Wales and Victoria undertook to guarantee 15,000£ a year for the cost of administering the territory, on the understanding that Her Majesty's Sovereignty would be declared over it, and by the Queensland British New Guinea Act, 1887, that colony undertook the necessary payment and the territory was formally annexed by the newly appointed Administrator, Dr. Macgregor, on the 4th Sept., 1888. The constitution of the colony is regulated by Letters Patent of 8th June, 1888, under which the government is carried on by an administrator, with the advice of an executive council nominated by the Crown, and a legislative council also nominated by the Crown, and consisting of not less than two persons beside the administrator. The correspondence of the administrator with the Secretary of State passes through the Governor of Queensland, and by an order in Council of the 17th of May, an appeal lies in certain criminal and civil cases from the courts of the colony to the Supreme Court of Queensland.

Industry.

Persons desirous of exploring the country or trading must apply for permits. Vessels trading
to New Guinea must proceed to Port Moresby or Samarai, the only ports of entry. No firearms, explosives, or spirituous liquors may be imported, and no settlement or acquisition of land is allowed. The white population numbers about 50, principally engaged in connection with the "Bâche de mer" fishery. The native population has been estimated vaguely at 2,000,000, but is not probably over 150,000. Gold has been recently discovered at Sudest Island, and a considerable influx of miners is anticipated.

| Revenue | Expenditure |
|---------|-------------|
| £       | £           |
| 1884-5  | 15,172      | 15,048      |
| 1885-6  | 14,962      | 18,948      |
| 1886-7  | 18,596      | 14,560      |

Executive Council.
The Administrator.
The Secretary to Government.

Legislative Council.
The Administrator.
The Secretary to Government.
The Judicial Officer.

Establishment.
Administrator, Wm. Macgregor, C.M.G., 1,500l.
Private Secretary, B. H. Thomson, 300l.
Secretary to Government, Anthony Musgrave, 500l., house allowance, 200l.

