ASCENSION.

The island of Ascension, 34 miles in area, lying in the South Atlantic, lat. 7째 53' S. and long. 14째 18' W., is under the supervision of the Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty, who maintain a small naval station there. It was taken possession of in 1815, and is now garrisoned by 100 marines. It is famous for its turtles, large numbers of which are caught between Dec. and May. The mail steamers from the Cape call there once a month. It is a barren, rocky peak of purely volcanic origin, and destitute of vegetation, except at the highest point, 2,870 feet high, but has been cultivated to an extent permitting the maintenance of 3,000 sheep. The transfer of the naval station to St. Helena is under consideration. The population is about 166. The imports from and exports to the United Kingdom in 1887 were 2,318l. and 78l. respectively.

Captain, Richard H. Napier, R.N.

TRISTAN D'ACUNHA.

Tristan d'Acunha and Gough Island are the principal of a group of islands lying in lat. 37째 6' S. and long. 12째 2' W. It was taken possession of by a military force during the residence of Napoleon at St. Helena. Upon his death the garrison was withdrawn, with the exception of three men, who, with certain shipwrecked sailors, became the founders of the present settlement. For a long time only one of the settlers had a wife, but subsequently the others contracted with a sea captain to bring them wives from St. Helena. The population has since increased to about a hundred, and remains practically stationary, as the younger and more ambitious settlers migrate in batches to the Cape. The inhabitants practically enjoy their possessions in common, and there is no strong drink on the island, and no crime. It was at one time proposed to give them laws and a regular government, but this was found unnecessary for the above reasons, and they remain under the moral rule of their oldest inhabitant, Governor Green, successor to Governor Glass, Corporal in the Royal Artillery, and founder of the settlement. The inhabitants are spoken of as long-lived, healthy, moral, religious, and hospitable to strangers. A supply of stores and provisions was provided out of a grant voted by Parliament, and sent out by a man-of-war in 1886, nearly all the able-bodied men having been drowned while attempting to board a vessel in December, 1885. There are 300 cattle and 200 sheep on the islands, and crops of potatoes are raised.

