BRITISH BECHUANALAND.

Situation and Area.

British Bechuanaland is bounded on the east by the South African Republic, on the south by the Cape Colony, on the west by the Molopo River, and on the north by the said Molopo River, to its junction with the Ramathlabama Spruit and thence by the said Spruit to the frontier of the South African Republic.

The Protectorate over Bechuanaland and the Kalahari extends westward to the 20th meridian of east longitude, and northward to the 22nd parallel of south latitude. The total area of the whole district is about 162,000 square miles. The country to the northward, as far as the Zambesi River, has been declared to be within the sphere of exclusively British influence and protection. A Royal Charter has been granted to the British South Africa Company, which will operate in this district. (See p. 300.)

History.

As a consequence of the Convention of London concluded on the 27th February, 1884, between Her Majesty and the South African Republic, it was decided by Her Majesty's Government to establish a protectorate in Bechuanaland, with the special object of protecting two chiefs named Mankoroane (chief of the Batlapine), and Montsioa (chief of the Barolong), whose misfortunes had excited much sympathy in this country, and who were believed to have established special claims upon the gratitude of Great Britain. The cases of the chiefs were very similar. Mankoroane had a rival named Massouw, who was supported by certain Boers; whilst Montsioa had a rival, similarly supported, named Moshette. In each case the native supported by the Boers had been victorious in the hostilities which had taken place, and in the peace agreements which followed it was provided that the European volunteers should receive grants of land chiefly out of the former possession of the defeated chiefs. The allies of Massouw had constituted themselves into a Republic styled STELLALAND, and the allies of Moshette into one styled LAND GOOSEN, or the LAND OF GOSHEN. The Stellalanders succeeded to a great extent in occupying the lands thus carved out for them, and in organising a government. The Goshenites had not been so successful, and hostilities between them and Montsioa were still proceeding. In pursuance of the resolution to establish a protectorate, Mr. John Mackenzie, who had long lived with Mankoroane as a missionary, was appointed Deputy to the High Commissioner for Bechuanaland, and proceeded to Mankoroane's town of Taungs, where, on the 3rd May, 1884, he accepted from that chief on behalf of the Queen, a cession of his rights of government, and on reaching Vryburg, the capital of Stellaland, on the 12th May, he entered into negotiations with certain persons whom he believed to represent the white inhabitants at large, but no agreement was concluded. He then proceeded to Mafeking, where, on the 22nd May, he negotiated a treaty with Montsioa similar to that obtained from Mankoroane. On his way back he visited the western chiefs and obtained treaties from them. All this time a police force had been in course of organisation at Kimberley and Taungs, but the work proceeded slowly, chiefly from the difficulty of obtaining good horses; and there were no men available to keep the peace between Montsioa and the Goshenites. On the 12th May, that is a few days before Mr. Maackenzie's arrival at Mafeking, Mr. Bethell, a white adviser of Montsioa, had led the tribe to burn part of the Goshenites' town, and although there appear to have been no reprisals during Mr. Mackenzie's brief stay, the Goshenites had determined to renew hostilities, and in June proceeded to make forays on Montsioa's cattle and crops, and to seek to bring on a general engagement. This they succeeded in doing on the 31st July, when Montsioa's forces were completely routed, 100 tribemen being killed, and also Mr. Bethell and a Mr. Walker. The Goshenites thus obtained for the first time possession of the lands which they
had long been watching an opportunity to seize; whilst Montsia had to take refuge in his stockade at Maiking. At this point the South African Republic intervened; Commandant-General Joubert, who had been sent to meet Mr. Rhodes, who was appointed to act as Deputy Commissioner on the resignation of Mr. Mackenzie, brought about a so-called peace and settlement of the country, which included the destruction of Montsia's laager and the absorption of all his country by the freebooters, except ten farms, or say about 60,000 acres. This agreement was immediately repudiated by Mr. Rhodes, and was never recognised in any way. Montsia was also induced to offer to place himself and his tribe under the South African Republic; and the President, with the assent of the Volksraad, issued a proclamation, dated the 16th September, taking Montsia, and also Moshette, under the protection of the Republic, subject to the approval of Her Majesty the Queen, under Article IV. of the Convention of London.

Her Majesty's Government, in a telegram of the 7th October, disapproved the proclamation, and called on the South African Republic to annul it; which was done by another proclamation of the 18th of that month. At the same time the Government decided to take steps to extricate Montsia from the state in which he had been left by the attacks of the freebooters. For this purpose arrangements were made for collecting and despatching to Bechuanaland a force of about 4,000 men of all arms, including 2,000 irregular cavalry. The force was placed under the immediate command of Sir Charles Warren, R.E. (now G.C.M.G.), with the local military rank of Major-General, and having also a civil commission as Special Commissioner for Bechuanaland. Whilst the military preparations were proceeding the Cape Premier and the Treasurer visited the country with a view of arranging a peaceful settlement. On the 22nd November, 1884 these gentlemen concluded an arrangement with the Goshenites, the details of which need not be given, as they were regarded by Her Majesty's Government as unsatisfactory, and Sir Charles Warren was consequently directed to proceed and occupy the country, which he did without meeting with any armed opposition. He remained in military occupation of the country until August, 1885, completely restoring tranquillity, and engaging in many useful labours for the permanent pacification of the country. These labours included the marking off of the Transvaal and Bechuanaland boundary, as laid down by the London Convention of 1884, and visiting the chiefs of Northern Bechuanaland, Gasitse, Sechelo, and Khama, over whom Her Majesty's Government had declared a protectorate in March, 1885.

To return to the affairs of the settlers in Stellaland, it may be mentioned that after leaving Montsia at the end of May, Mr. Mackenzie arrived at a settlement of the affairs of Stellaland with some of the persons with whom he had previously been treating, which involved a recognition to a great extent of the land claims of the Stellalanders, and of the money obligations of the Stellaland Government, and the assumption by the British Government of the administration of the country. This settlement was finally concluded on the 4th July. In August Mr. Mackenzie was recalled to Cape Town by Sir Hercules Robinson, and whilst there, in view of the disfavour with which his appointment and proceedings were regarded by the Cape Ministry, he, on the 19th August, tendered his resignation.

In the meantime Mr. Rhodes had been sent to replace him in Bechuanaland, assisted by Commander Graham Bower, R.N., Sir Hercules Robinson's secretary. These gentlemen arrived at an agreement with the Stellalanders on the 8th September, rescinding Mr. Mackenzie's arrangement of the affairs of Stellaland, and restoring the temporary administration of its affairs to the white inhabitants, under the supervision of the British Government pending a final settlement of affairs and the annexation of Bechuanaland to the Cape Colony, which was the end generally kept in view by all parties. Sir Charles Warren and the Bestuhr, or Council, which existed in Stellaland during his presence in the country, were opposed to the Rhodes agreement on technical and general grounds, into which it is unnecessary to enter, as the whole land question in British Bechuanaland was relegated to a judicial commission consisting of the present administrator, Sir Sidney Shippard, and two officers.

On the 30th September, 1885, the territory south of the Molopo River and of the Ramatilibama Spruit was declared to be British territory under the name of British Bechuanaland. A commission was issued to the Governor of the Cape of Good Hope to be its governor, with power to legislate by proclamation, and the actual duties of administrator were entrusted to Mr. (now Sir) Sidney Shippard, formerly attorney-general of Griqualand West, and subsequently a judge in the Cape Colony Sir Charles Warren's force having been withdrawn, a mounted police force was formed for service in British Bechuanaland, and also to patrol and protect the country of the three protected chiefs of Northern Bechuanaland already mentioned, Gasitse, Sechelo, and Khama. Mankorosane and Montsia now receive a yearly stipend of £600 each from H.M. Government.

Climate, Water Supply, &c.

The climate of Bechuanaland is remarkably healthy. The dryness of the atmosphere neutralises to a great extent the effects of the heat in summer, while in winter the days are bright and tolerably warm, though between sunset and sunrise the cold is often intense owing to the elevation of the country, which may be roughly stated to vary from 4,000 to 4,500 feet above sea-level. The annual rainfall is about 25 inches. During the rainy season, from November to April, the rainfall is often very considerable, and many parts present for a time the appearance of extensive marshes, but the water soon disappears, and in summer most of the rivers or torrent-beds are dry. The Molopo generally flows in winter; excellent water is however easily procurable at all times by digging in or near the river beds and by sinking wells in any part of the country. Thunderstorms are frequent in the summer, and dust storms from August to November.

The rate of mortality is low. Horse sickness is prevalent from December to May, and disappears when frost first sets in. Horses however become acclimatised, and with due precautions there is reason to believe that horse sickness may eventually disappear.

Industries.

The chief industry is agriculture, and the country is well adapted for the breeding and fattening of cattle. The soil is excellent, especially to the north of the Setlagoli River, and with irrigation and slight culture will produce
abundant crops. The black soil of Rooigrond is of great fertility. Maize, or "mealies," and Kafir corn are produced in abundance, and also vegetables of all kinds. Acacias and thorn trees abound north of Setlagoli. Well sinking and windmill pumps are found adequate to secure the requisite irrigation. Among natural products the wild indigo is especially remarkable from the excellence of the dye. Cotton also grows wild. Tobacco is being cultivated.

Gold has been discovered near Pitsanie, in the neighbourhood of Mafeking, on the Setlagoli and Maritsani Rivers, at Morokwen, on the borders of the Kalahari, and also near Vryburg and Taungs. Some of the specimens of quartz produced are rich, and small nuggets have been found on the Maritsani. Lead, tin, silver, coal, and iron have also been found.

As there is no customs establishment, the value of the external trade cannot be given. The imports, which nearly all come from the Cape Colony, consist of textiles, hardware, and alcohol. The exports, nearly all for the Kimberley market, consist of mealies, wool, hides, cattle, and wood.

Means of Communication.

There is a good road from Barkly West to Taungs, and thence there are two routes to Vryburg, the chief town of Stellaland. In order to escape the imposts on waggons levied by the South African Republic, a loop road for waggons has lately been made in British Territory so as to avoid Kunana. In addition to these routes there is the western road from Kuruman to Pitsanie. From Mafeking excellent roads branch out in all directions. Shoshong and the country to the north up to the Zambesi may be reached either by the direct route from Molopole, which is badly watered, or by the Notwani and Limpopo or Crocodile Rivers. Mafeking is the emporium of the trade with the interior, and is at present mainly supplied with merchandise brought from Kimberley, since the Cape Colony has allowed rebate to the extent of the difference between the Cape duties and those of Natal.

A railway is about to be commenced between Vryburg and Kimberley, which will be eventually extended to Mafeking.

The temporary military line of telegraph left by Sir Charles Warren has been replaced by a permanent line, extending from Barkly West to Mafeking, a distance of more than 200 miles, which is thus in telegraphic communication with all parts of the world. This is now being extended to Shoshong and Gubulawayo.

There is a tri-weekly post with Cape Town and all parts of the Cape Colony. The English mail leaving Cape Town on Saturday reaches Vryburg on the following Tuesday, and Mafeking on the following Wednesday. Letters posted in Mafeking in time for the mail on Thursday morning reach Cape Town in good time for the out-going English mail steamer on the following Wednesday. There is also a horse post between Kuruman and Vryburg, and letters can be sent weekly by native runners to Kanya, Molopole, Shoshong, the Tati, and Gubulawayo in Matebeleland. The extra colonial mails leave Kimberley for Bechuanaland on Tuesdays and Fridays, arriving in Vryburg on Thursdays and Sundays, and returning on Mondays and Wednesdays. The branch post to Kuruman leaves Vryburg on Wednesdays, and Kuruman on Saturdays. Postal business is rapidly increasing. A system of postal drafts and parcels post has also been established.

Population (Estimated, and British Bechuanaland only.)

| Europeans | Bechuanaland Border Police | 350 |
|-----------|---------------------------|-----|
|           | Mafeking                  | 200 |
|           | Vryburg                   | 800 |
|           | Do. District              | 600 |
|           | Taungs                    | 50  |
|           | Taungs District           | 100 |

Natives:

| Batlapin   | 28,295 |
| Barolong   | 13,340 |
| Klein Ching| 250    |
| Hakwarring | 500    |

Grand Total: 42,835

Churches and Education.

British Bechuanaland forms part of the Anglican Diocese of Bloemfontein, and is within the circuit of the Archdeacon of Griqualand West. There is a clergyman at Phoquane.

At Vryburg two schools for young children have already been opened. There is also a school at Mafeking.

The London Missionary Society maintains a fine educational establishment for natives at Kuruman, and has missionsaries at that place, Taungs, Kanya, Molopole, Shoshong, and elsewhere.

The Wesleyan Mission has been long established at Mafeking and elsewhere. There is a large Wesleyan native church and a European chapel at Mafeking, and one at Vryburg.

The foundation of a Dutch Reformed Church has recently been laid at Vryburg.

Hospitals.

There are small gaol hospitals at Mafeking, Vryburg, and Taungs. At Mafeking a good military hospital has been built by the troopers of the Bechuanaland Police Force.

Currency and Banking.

The want of banking facilities is a subject of much complaint on the part of the traders and farmers. A branch of the Standard Bank of South Africa was, however, opened at Vryburg in Dec. 1889. There is as yet no Government savings bank. The currency is exclusively British sterling.

Towns.

Vryburg is the principal town, and the headquarters of government; but at Mafeking, in the neighbourhood of the native village of the same name, substantial public and private buildings of stone and burnt brick with galvanised iron roofs have sprung up.

The British Protectorate.

Patrols of the Bechuanaland Border Police visit the various districts from time to time. A small detachment is at present stationed at Shoshong, where the chief Khama is apprehensive of attacks from other chiefs. There are also small detachments at Kanya and Molopole. An Assistant Commissioner has been appointed, who lives in a waggon and travels from place to place, having to spend much of his time at Gubulawayo, where he lately concluded an important treaty with Lo Bengula.

With regard to the Kalahari—much of which is a fine, well-watered, and productive country—
little has been done beyond establishing a good understanding with the chief Bareki at Honing Vlei. Toto, chief of the Batlaros of the Langberg, is loyal, and his people are well behaved. It is proposed to establish a new European township close to the Kuruman Fountain above the land of the London Missionary Society. Farms are occupied on the north bank of the Orange river west of Kheis.

The Land Commission of British Bechuanaland.

The land settlement of British Bechuanaland effected by the Commission has been eminently satisfactory. Ample provision has been made for all the native requirements. Stellaland is finally settled and has now a farming population. All valid European claims in the Batlapin country have been satisfied, and the remaining extent of land will eventually be disposed of for public purposes. In the neighbourhood of Setlagoli and along the Maritsani River English farmers are now forming various scattered settlements, which bid fair to be a great success, as the land occupied is well watered, highly productive, and admirably suited for cattle, of which improved breeds are being introduced.

Surveys.

Extensive surveys of Native Reserves and Crown lands have been authorised in connection with main triangulation of British Bechuanaland. The Transvaal Border is also being surveyed by a joint Commission, a measure rendered necessary by the circumstance that the boundary line is a road liable to deviations, and at first very insufficiently defined by landmarks at long intervals.

The Bechuanaland Border Police.

Colonel (now Sir F.) Carrington, K.C.M.G., raised this useful force while the army of Sir Charles Warren was leaving South Africa, and picked men from other Corps were enrolled, but the force has been chiefly recruited from the young farmers of the Eastern Districts of the Cape Colony, especially from Lower Albany. They are well disciplined, and their uniform and equipments are adapted for the requirements of their service, which are very varied. They have erected fortifications and built their own barracks at Mafeking, Vryburg, and Taungs; they sink wells, and perform countless duties beyond the scope of ordinary troops or police. They are trained both as cavalry soldiers, and to act on occasion as infantry or artillery in connection with the six field guns belonging to the Colony.

Revenue and Expenditure.

| Year | Local Revenue | Received from Parliamentary grant | Expenditure |
|------|--------------|----------------------------------|-------------|
| 1885-6 | 7,409        | 56,436                           | 52,762      |
| 1886-7 | 11,757       | 86,945                           | 105,650     |
| 1887-8 | 13,316       | 78,000                           | 76,529      |
| 1888-9 | 15,742       | 76,000                           | 89,017      |

Establishment.

Governor, Sir Henry Brougham Loch, K.C.B. (Capetown).
Administrator and Chief Magistrate, Sir Sidney Godolphin Alexander Shippard, D.C.L., K.C.M.G., 1,800l.
Colonial Secretary and Receiver-General, Francis J. Newton, 600l.
Secretary, J. A. Ashburnham, 400l.
Clerk, J. F. Hawtayne, 350l.
Clerks, D. Eycott Martin, 250l., and R. Cloete, 180l.
Examiner of Accounts (Cape Town), E. C. Baxter, 400l.
Surveyor-General, A. H. F. Duncan, 600l.
Clerk and Assistant, F. von Hagen, 450l.
Clerk, F. Windley, 180l.
Inspector of Native Reserves, C. St. Quintin, 400l.
Postmaster-General and Superintendent of Telegraphs, J. E. Middleton, 500l., and 100l. allowance.
Inspector, W. Hepworth, 250l.
Clerk, E. R. Townsend, 180l.
Crown Prosecutor, J. Vintcent, 500l.

District of Vryburg.

Civil Commissioner and Resident Magistrate, R. Tillard, 600l.
Chief Clerk and Assistant R.M., George J. Boyes, 300l.
Registrar of Deeds, M. C. Genis, 300l.
Accounting Clerk, Herbert Greener, 300l.
District Surgeon, W. M. Nugent, L.K. Q C. P.I., 100l. (allowances).

District of Mafeking.

Civil Commissioner and Resident Magistrate, A. G. Hatchard, 500l.
Clerk, J. L. Reid, 250l.
District Surgeon,

District of Taungs.

Civil Commissioner and Resident Magistrate, Major Stanley Lowe, 500l.
Clerk, T. J. Clinkscales, 200l.

District of Kuruman.

Civil Commissioner and Resident Magistrate, C. B. Scholtz, 500l.
Clerk, B. May, 200l.

District of Gordonia.

Civil Commissioner and Resident Magistrate, C. Bam, 500l.

Police.

Col. Commanding, Sir F. C. Carrington, K.C.M.G., 1,000l.
Majors, H. Goold Adams, 600l.; R. Grey, 25s. per diem.
Captains, F. McAdam, W. F. Coleman, C. Lawrie, C. F. M. McGregor, 20s. per diem.
Captain Adjutant and Quartermaster, A. Bates, 20s. per diem.
Lieutenants, E. C. Turner, Hon. C. J. Coventry, — Benson, J. W. Fuller, 13s. per diem.
Sub-Lieutenants, G. P. de Pemberton, F. W. Bruce, W. G. Holt, A. Wight, 11s. per diem.
Paymaster, Capt. E. H. C. McPherson, 20s. per diem.
Medical Officer, A. P. Groen, 450l.

Stores Department.

Government Storekeeper, Capt. C. Goodyear, 400l.
Clerk, S., Herman-Schwabe, 150l.

Bechuanaland Protectorate.

Assistant Commissioner and Resident with Lo Bengula, Rev. J. S. Moffat, 1,000l.
