IMPERIAL BRITISH EAST AFRICAN COMPANY.

On the 3rd of September, 1888, a charter was issued incorporating this Company for the "entire management of those parts of the islands and mainland of the Zanzibar dominions on the East Coast of Africa appertaining to the territory lying between Wanga and Kepini, both inclusive, which are recognised in the Anglo-German Treaty of 1886 as reserved for the exclusive exercise of British influence, together with any further rights of a similar nature in East Africa or elsewhere which the Company may hereafter acquire." The Company thus formed has for its president Mr. William Mackinnon, to whom the concession was originally granted on the 24th of May, 1887, by the Sultan of Zanzibar. The concession is a strip of coast 150 miles in length, including the important harbours of Mombassa and Kilifi, probably the finest harbours on the East Coast of Africa, and stretching inward to the ten-mile limit to which the Zanzibar dominion on the mainland was confined by the Anglo-German agreement referred to. The Company, however, have full powers for acquiring territory to the west of this limit as far as the zone of British influence extends, 360 miles from the coast to the shores of the Victoria Nyanza.

The general character of the East African coast is deadly, but beyond the central half of the British line, from a little south of Mombassa to Malendi, the climate is reported to be much better. There is little information respecting the interior, but it appears that after about twenty-five miles of low hills the country slopes gently to the central plateau. The atmosphere is reported to be dry and comparatively healthy. The sandstone under-soil is unfavourable to rank vegetation, but the rainfall appears not to be abundant, as ebony, teak, thorn, and other hard woods abound, and vast quantities of lupatio and fibre aloe flourish, but the ground is said to be covered with a short sweet pasturage. Before the region was depopulated by the Massai it appears to have been filled with a pastoral population, and in the dense forest patches are still found with plantations of Indian corn, beans, and lentils, and flocks of oxen, sheep, and goats. There will be for some time great difficulty in developing the country owing to the want of labour, and the warlike and thieving propensities of the Massai, but if these last can be overcome there will be no difficulty in obtaining labour from India. Indian traders from Zanzibar and the German East African Protectorate are already settling in the Company's territory. The directors of the Company are William Mackinnon, President, Lord Brassey, K.C.B., Vice-President, and Gen. Sir Donald M. Stewart, Bart., G.C.B., Sir Thomas Fowell Buxton, Bart., Sir John Kirk, G.C.M.G., Gen. Sir Arnold Burrowes Kemball, R.A., K.C.S.I., Lieut.-Gen. Sir Lewis Pelly, M.P., K.C.B., K.C.S.I., Col. Sir Francis de Winton, R.A., K.C.M.G., C.B., W. Burdett-Coutts, M.P., Alexander Low Bruce, Sir Robert Palmer Harding, George Sutherland MacKenzie, and Robert Ryrie.

The capital of the Company is 250,000l., held by thirty-five shareholders, but only ten per cent. has as yet been called up.

Mr. Mackenzie, who has had considerable experience of Arab and Persian tribes in the Persian Gulf, is engaged with a well selected staff in organising the territory. About 20 white officers are employed, caravans being despatched into the interior in various directions, for commercial and exploring purposes.

A good road has been constructed between Mombassa and Mbungo (50 miles), and another from Mombassa to Malindi is being proceeded with. A telegraph line along the coast is under construction. A few miles of light railway on the island of Mombassa are in contemplation. Camels have been introduced, but they do not thrive; donkeys, mules, and ponies do well.

The ports of Mombassa and Kilifi have been surveyed, and piers are being built at both places. The Company's copper coinage is well received, and a silver currency is under consideration.

London Office, 2, Pall Mall East, S.W.

Chief Local Officers.

G. S. Mackenzie, Managing Director in East Africa. Lieut. Swayne, F. J. Jackson, and J. R. W. Pigott.

