NIGER PROTECTORATE.

The British Protectorate over the entire basin of the Lower Niger, including the Benin and Cross Rivers, was formally assumed in July, 1884, when regular treaties of protection were concluded by Consul Hewett with all the principal Chiefs. It extends along the coast of Africa from the Benin River (where it joins the boundary of Lagos) to the mouth of the Rio del Rey at 9° east longitude. Inland the Protectorate includes the whole basins of the Lower Niger and Binué up to and beyond the Boussa rapids on the former, and Jin on the latter, in about 10° north latitude. The settlement of the Baptist Missionary Society at Victoria, Amboiseg (or Ambas) Bay was formerly British territory, having been formally annexed in July, 1884. It was however ceded to the German Empire, which has acquired by purchase the rights of the Baptist Missionary Society, the transfer of sovereignty taking place on the 29th March, 1887.

The whole of these vast districts are under the general supervision of the British Consul for the Bights of Benin and Biafra, but on the 10th of July, 1886, a Royal Charter was granted to the Royal Niger Company (formerly the National African Company, Limited), by which extensive powers of administration were conferred upon them in the territories over which they have treaty rights, including a belt of 30 miles on each bank of the Niger and Binué. The operations of the Company extend as far inland as Gando and Sokato, with the Sultans of which countries treaties have been concluded. The Company's operations on the sea coast are mainly confined to Akassa, the Nün entrance to the Niger. The British Consular jurisdiction is chiefly exercised in the river mouths between the Benin, Brass, and the Old Calabar Rivers.

Means of Communication.

There are telegraph stations at Brass and Bonny, in cable communication with Lagos, and thus with Europe. Regular steamers arrive and depart from Liverpool and the South-West Coast of Africa every three weeks. Communication in the Niger Basin is mainly by the steamers of the Royal Niger Company.

Industry.

An enormous trade, wholly in the hands of English firms, is done in the Protectorate, mainly with this country, Germany, and France. There are extensive depots in all the river mouths of the delta, from which palm oil and kernels, with some ebony, are exported. The internal trade of the Niger and Binué is almost entirely done by the Royal Niger Company, whose chief depot is Akassa. Besides the articles already mentioned, ivory, indiarubber, shea-butter and beni-seed are exported by the Company, which has over 150 "factories."

The imports consist of cotton goods, spirits, hardware, guns, gunpowder, salt, silks, and coral. The steamers of the Company navigate the Niger up to the rapids of Boussa, 450 miles from the sea, and for 450 miles of the course of the Binué, which falls into the Niger at Igbegbe, 290 miles from the sea. No statistics as to the amount of trade are available.

Customs Tariff of the Royal Niger Company (payable at Akassa and Lokoja):

| Import Duties (Akassa) | s. d. |
|-----------------------|------|
| Spirits, per imperial gallon | 2 0 |
| Tobacco, per lb. | 0 6 |
| Salt, per cwt. | 1 0 |

War material (arms, powder, &c.), 100 per cent. ad val.
All other merchandise, except coal, 2 per cent. ad val.

In addition, similar duties are payable at Lokoja (except that the ad val. duty is 10 per cent.), so that the total dues on imports above Lokoja are more than double the above.

| Export Duties (Akassa) | s. d. |
|-----------------------|------|
| Palm kernels, per cwt. | 2 0 |
| Palm oil and shea butter, per gallon | 0 1 |
| Ivory, per lb. | 1 0 |
| All other native produce, 20 per cent. ad val. |

There are no Customs duties at the other ports on the coast.

The amount of import duties levied in 1887 was 24,037l., and the export duties 16,781l.

Administration.

No interference in the domestic government of the native chiefs is contemplated, but disputes are settled and much indirect influence is exercised by the British Consuls under the general direction of the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. Civil and criminal jurisdiction over British subjects is exercised in the Consular Courts (under the West Africa Order in Council, 1885), subject to appeal to the Supreme Court of Sierra Leone or the Gold Coast Colony. Within the territories of the Royal Niger Company civil and criminal jurisdiction is exercised by the officers of that Company under the powers given by the Charter. The judicial system was organised by Sir James Marshall, C.M.G., during 1888.

British Consular Establishment.

Consul, Edward Hyde Hewett, C.M.G., F.R.G.S., Duke Town, Old Calabar, 1,200l., and 720l. allowance, with residence.

Vice-Consul, Hy. Hamilton Johnston, F.R.G.S., &c. (also Vice-Consul for the German Protectorate of the Cameroons), Mondolo Island, Victoria, Amboise Bay, 500l., and 200l. allowances, with residence.

Royal Niger Company.

Chief Depot, Akassa, Niger Delta.
London Office, 34–40, Ludgate-hill, E.C.
Capital, 37,675 shares of 10l. each.
Chairman, The Right Hon. Lord Aberdare, P.C., G.C.B.
Deputy Chairman, Sir G. D. Taubman Goldie, K.C.M.G.
Chief Local Officers of the Company, Messrs. David Muckintosh, Sergeant, Flint, and Wallace.

Foreign Consuls.

Germany, Baron von Soden, Consul-General, Cameroon River; H. H. Johnston, F.R.G.S. (Vice-Consul).
SOUTH AFRICA HIGH COMMISSION—WESTERN PACIFIC.

