SOUTH AFRICA.

High Commission.

The office of High Commissioner in and for South Africa, was created by Letters Patent in 1878, and is filled by the Officer administering the Government of the Cape Colony. The High Commissioner is charged with the conduct of British relations with the South African Republic (Transvaal), and the Orange Free State, as well as those with Swaziland, Pondoland, and other native states and tribes outside the Cape Colony and Natal. In 1879, a second High Commissioner was appointed, to whom was assigned South-Eastern Africa, including Zululand and Amatongaland, but this arrangement ceased in 1881, when a Special Commissioner for Zulu affairs was appointed, who is also Governor of Natal (and now of Zululand), and conducts the relations with Amatongaland. The High Commissioner for South Africa is also Governor of British Bechuanaland and Basutoland, and supervises the affairs of the Bechuanaland Protectorate, as well as the country within the recent extension of British influence as far north as the Zambesi. The expenses of the High Commission are borne by Imperial funds, under Vote 6 of Class V. The Administrator of British Bechuanaland is also Deputy Commissioner; and in July, 1888, a Deputy Commissioner was appointed for Pondoland, who is paid by the Cape Government, the affairs of that country being dealt with by the Cape Department of Native Affairs. The correspondence with the South African Republic is carried on through a British Agent at Pretoria furnished with a letter of credence to the President.

High Commissioner, Sir H. B. Loch, G.C.M.G., K.C.B. (Cape Town), 1,000l.
Secretary to the High Commission, Graham Bower, late Commander, R.N., 620l.
Deputy Commissioner for Bechuanaland, Sir S. G. A. Shippard (Vryburg), 1,800l. (paid by Bechuanaland).
Assistant Commissioner for the Protectorate and Resident with Lo Bengula, J. S. Moffat, 1,000l.
Deputy Commissioner for Pondoland, J. P. Scott, 600l. (paid by Cape Colony).
British Agent at Pretoria, Ralph Williams, 1,000l. (including 300l. for office expenses).

British South Africa Company.

A Royal Charter was granted on 15th October, 1889, to this Company, conferring upon it powers to carry out any valid concessions that might be granted to it of administrative or commercial privileges in the territory to the north of British Bechuanaland, west of the Portuguese dominions, and north and west of the South African Republic. The area of its operations thus includes the Bechuanaland Protectorate, as well as most of the district declared to be within the sphere of British influence. The Tati district, now being worked by another company, is excluded from the sphere of the chartered company's operations. The concessions already acquired include valuable mining and commercial privileges from both Lo Bengula and Khama; and steps are being taken to develop the country as well as to acquire powers of administration. A railway is about to be commenced between Kimberley and Vryburg, British Bechuanaland, which will be extended to Mafeking. The telegraph is being extended from Mafeking to Shoshong and Gubulowayo, and a police force is being raised.

Capital, 1,000,000l., in 1l. shares.
London Office, 14, George Street, Mansion House.
President, Duke of Abercorn, C.B.
Vice-President, Duke of Fife, K.T.
Commissioners, Lord Gifford, F.C., C. J. Rhodes, M.L.A., Alfred Belt, Albert Grey, and George Cawston.
Secretary, C. H. Weatherley.

