WESTERN PACIFIC.

High Commission.

The office of High Commissioner in, over, and for the Western Pacific Islands, was created by an Order in Council, cited as the Western Pacific Order in Council of 1877, for the purpose of better carrying out the provisions of the Pacific Islanders' Protection Acts, 1872 and 1875, and to provide a Civil Court for the settlement of disputes between British subjects living in these islands.

The jurisdiction of the High Commissioner extends over all islands in the Western Pacific not being within the limits of the Colonies of Fiji, Queensland, or New South Wales, and not being within the jurisdiction of any civilised power, and includes the Southern Solomon Islands, the New Hebrides, the Tongan or Friendly Islands, the Samoan or Navigators' Islands, and the various small groups of Melanesia. The expenses of the High Commission are met from Imperial funds, Class V. vote 5, the total in 1889-90 being 2,390l.

The Chief Justice of Fiji, and every other Judge for the time being of the Supreme Court, is by virtue of his office a Judicial Commissioner, and where the attendance of the Chief Justice or other Judge of the Supreme Court is impracticable, the High Commissioner may appoint a Judicial Commissioner for particular purposes or for a particular time.

Deputy Commissioners are appointed by the High Commissioner on behalf of Her Majesty.

The High Commissioner's Court consists of the High Commissioner, the Judicial Commissioners, and the Deputy Commissioners, and in it is vested all her Majesty's civil and criminal jurisdiction exercisable in the Western Pacific Islands.

The Court of a Judicial Commissioner has powers similar to those of the Superior Courts of England, and the Deputy Commissioners have jurisdiction civil and criminal analogous to that of Stipendiary Magistrates and Judges of County Courts, with certain limited powers in respect of probate and letters of administration.

With some few exceptions all decisions of the High Commissioner's Court may be appealed against to the Supreme Court of Fiji.

For the purpose of better carrying out the provisions of the Pacific Islanders' Protection Acts, 1872 and 1875, and in order to deal with cases occurring where there is no resident Deputy Commissioner, certain officers in command of her Majesty's ships of war on the Australian station have been appointed Deputy Commissioners.

In addition to the other means of preserving order the High Commissioner has certain special powers for the deportation of persons whose proceedings endanger the peace of the Islands.
