ZULULAND.

Situation and Area.

Zululand is the territory lying to the north of Natal, from which it is divided by the River Tugela. It is bounded on the east by the Indian Ocean, on the north and north-west by the "New Republic," and on the north by Tongaland. It comprises the territory formerly known as the Zulu Reserve, with about two-thirds of the territory restored to Cetywayo in 1883, and it was formally declared British territory in May, 1887. Its area is 8,900 square miles (the Reserve having been 2,567, Eastern Zululand 5,658, and St. Lucia Lake 680 square miles). The "New Republic" comprises 2,851 square miles, and was an independent state until its union with the South African Republic in July, 1888.

History.

The Zulus are a warlike tribe of Kaffirs who seem under Chaka to have pressed southwards in the beginning of the century, and to have become consolidated into a powerful and well organised kingdom. Chaka was murdered and succeeded by Dingaan in 1828, who came into conflict with the emigrant Dutch, by whom he was deposed in 1839, in favour of his brother Panda. In the latter years of King Panda Zululand was distracted by the rival ambitions of his sons. This state of things appeared to be of such evil consequence to the general peace, that the Natal Government in 1861 sent Mr. (now Sir) Theophilus Shepstone, Secretary for Native Affairs, on a mission to Zululand, to induce the Zulus to recognise some one of Panda's sons as heir to his throne, and thus restore tranquillity to the country. These chosen as heir, with the consent of the rations, the king, and the Natal Government, was Cetywayo, who from that time acted to a great extent as regent for his father until the latter died in 1873. Cetywayo, at the instance of Mr. Shepstone, proclaimed certain new laws, which in effect came to this, that he was not to kill his subjects without adequate cause and without trial. The relations between Cetywayo and Natal during the first years of his reign were not unfriendly, though they became occasionally strained through disregard by him of his coronation law. But after the annexation by England of the Transvaal, a material change in the relations of the two powers took place. Cetywayo had long hated the Boers, with whom he had a boundary dispute, dating from 1861, and after the annexation his enmity appeared to be transferred to the new Government. The Zulu war party, with the prime minister at their head, wanted at once to occupy the whole territory in dispute, and a collision between the Zulus and the British Government of the Transvaal appeared imminent, but was averted by the suggestion of Sir Henry Bulwer, Lieutenant Governor of Natal, to refer the dispute to the arbitration of three Commissioners to be selected by himself. This was accepted, both by Sir T. Shepstone, as Governor of the Transvaal, and by Cetywayo, and approved by Her Majesty's Government; the final award being however by them reserved to Sir B. Frere as Her Majesty's High Commissioner in South Africa. The Natal Commission reported in June, 1878, in favour of the claims of the Zulu king, and in September Sir B. Frere arrived in Natal and took up the consideration of the boundary dispute, and also of our general relations with the Zulus, which were becoming more and more strained. On the 11th of December his award in the arbitration was delivered to the representatives of the Zulu nation at the lower Tugela Drift, and at the same time these representatives were put in possession of the demands on other subjects, including the surrender of several Zulus accused of crimes in Natal, and a fine of 600 cattle. Besides these demands in respect of outrages, requirements were made on Cetywayo in respect of the government of his country.

Twenty days were given to him to comply with the first class of demands, and thirty days to comply with the second. The longer of these periods having elapsed, and the king not having complied, the further enforcement of the demands was confided to Lieut.-General Lord Chelmsford, whose forces advanced into Zululand in three columns between the 11th and 14th of January, 1879. On the 22nd of January two engagements were fought: one at Isandhlwana, the other at Inyezane, the
former with disastrous, the latter with doubtful results to the British. On the same night part of the Zulu impis crossed the Buffalo and attacked the commissariat and hospital post of Rorke's Drift, which was held by one company of the 24th Regiment. The post was without defences; but the officer in command, Lieut. (now Major) Chard, R.E., V.C., with great rapidity and skill converted the stores themselves into a defence, and throughout the whole night, the little garrison, behind a flimsy rampart of rice bags and biscuit boxes, successfully maintained an heroic defence.

In the meantime, the northern column, under Colonel (now Sir Evelyn) Wood, continued to engage and harass the enemy. But even in this part British arms were not free from disaster at the Intombi River, and in a reconnaissance at the Hlobane Mountain; but on the following day the whole Zulu army, numbering 24,000 men, having attacked Wood's camp at Kambula Kop, suffered a defeat, which from their own testimony they seem to have regarded as the severest chastisement which they received in the course of the war.

At the beginning of April reinforcements having begun to arrive from England and the neighbouring colonies, Lord Chelmsford advanced across the Lower Tugela to the relief of Colonel Pearson, who was shut up in Eshowe. His lordship defeated the enemy at Ginginhlava on the 3rd of April, and the same day relieved the garrison of Eshowe, which place was then abandoned.

No general engagement was fought after this until the 4th of July, when the main army advancing upon Wood's original line of march from Utrecht, fought the battle of Ulundi, when the military power of the Zulu kingdom was finally broken to pieces. Cetywayo fled to the bush with a few followers. The Zulu army never again assembled in force. The people accepted their defeat with singular calmness, at once returning to their usual avocations. Chief after chief submitted, and Cetywayo himself was captured. The dynasty of Chaka was deposed, and the country was divided into thirteen districts, each under an independent Chief, holding office by the gift of the Queen of England, subject to certain conditions accepted by him; a British resident was appointed to reside in Zululand, and be the adviser of the chiefs and channel of communication between them and the British Government.

The main defect in this arrangement was the want of a recognised and paramount authority; and difficulties were soon experienced in its working. Some of the appointed chiefs quarrelled and fought with one another and with their subjects, many of whom refused to recognise the authority of those placed over them. A large and influential party were anxious for the restoration of Cetywayo, more than one deputation visiting the Natal Government to make known their wishes on the subject. Sir H. Bulwer, who had assumed the government of Natal in the early part of 1882, was specially commissioned to inquire into the whole question of the Zulu settlement, with a view to its being placed on a stable footing. After fully considering his report, Her Majesty's Government decided to replace the ex-king over a part of his former kingdom, subject to certain conditions, and to constitute the remainder of Zululand an independent native territory. The whole country north of the Umlatsoosi River, with the exception of a small territory in the north-east, which Usibepu, one of the thirteen chiefs appointed by Sir Garnet Wolseley, was allowed to retain, was restored to Cetywayo, and the territory between the Umlatsoosi and the Natal frontier was constituted a native reserve, under the supervision of a British commissioner. It was arranged that locations should be provided in this reserve for any of the Zulus who might be unwilling to again submit to the restored king. Cetywayo, who had at his own request been allowed to visit England, where the decision of the Government was communicated to him, and by him formally accepted, was re-installed by Sir Theophilus Shepstone on the 29th January, 1883, in the presence of 5,000 Zulus.

His enemies, headed by Usibepu, proved more formidable than he or others had anticipated, and after a struggle of some months he was overthrown and his kraal destroyed. He took refuge in the Reserve, where he lived practically under the care of the Resident, until the 6th of February, 1884, when he died. Soon after his death the Usutus finding themselves no match for Usibepu, called in some Boer adventurers from the Transvaal and elsewhere, with whose assistance they inflicted a crushing defeat on Usibepu, who was driven to take refuge in the Reserve. As a reward for this service the Boers received a grant of land, in which they established a Republic.

Finding that the Zulu people were unable to form any orderly administration of the remaining territory, Her Majesty's Government decided, with the general assent of the Zulus, to declare their country to be British territory which was done in May, 1887.

On the 18th Dec., 1884, the British flag had been hoisted at St. Lucia Bay, which was ceded to the English Government by Panda in 1848. A proclamation of December, 1884, made it clear that Sordwana Point and Bay were included in Zululand, and the northern boundary is now being delimited.

Law and Constitution.

The Zulu Native Reserve was administered from 1883 to May, 1887, by a resident commissioner, immediately responsible to H.M.'s special commissioner for Zulu affairs; and order was maintained by a force of mounted native police. This organisation was subsequently extended over the whole territory.

The Territory is at present administered through a Resident Commissioner residing at Eshowe, under the direct supervision of the Governor of Natal, who exercises the power of legislating by proclamation. Native law remains in force as between natives, and the tribal authority of the chiefs is not interfered with. Natal law has been proclaimed as having force, as far as applicable, in Zululand, except in certain circumstances for which special laws and regulations are provided. The occupation of land by Europeans is not usually allowed, except for missionary, trading, or mining purposes. A hut tax of fourteen shillings per annum is levied throughout Zululand.

The creation of a township at Eshowe is in contemplation.

Trade and Industry.

The pursuits of the Zulus are mainly agricultural, crops of maize (mealies), and other cereals being raised round their kraals. Their individual wealth consists in cattle, of which they possess large numbers. They avoid the sea, and have no fishing. Trade is carried on by a few trading settlers, and by traders' waggons from Natal, which traverse the
country periodically. Oxen and maize are exchanged for cotton goods and hardware. Gold was discovered in December, 1886, at Mfongosi, near the River Tugela, but the diggings have not proved very remunerative.

No customs or transit dues are at present imposed upon goods entering Zululand. The importation of spirituous liquors is prohibited, except under special permit, and the sale of spirits to natives is forbidden.

By special arrangement between the Natal Government and the administration of Zululand, the latter territory is treated as a part of the Colony of Natal, for the purposes of the Natal Transit Dues Law (1886), under which certain articles pass through the Colony in bond for export beyond the borders on payment of a nominal transit duty.

Currency and Banking.

The currency is exclusively British sterling, but exchange and the payment of taxes and fines is largely carried on by the transfer of cattle. There is as yet no Government savings bank or other bank.

Means of Communication.

The absence of any good landing place prevents communication by sea. St. Lucia Bay, Gordwana Bay, and Port Durnford are nothing but exposed and surf-bound beaches, affording no harbour. Eshowe is in communication with Natal by telegraph, and by daily post carried by native runners. A waggon road has been completed between Eshowe and Rorke's Drift. The parcels post is in operation to Eshowe.

Education.

Education is at present left to the various missionary stations, there being four different societies represented. The Government grant is £250.

Population (estimate) 119,000.

Finances (Zulu Reserve, until 1887).

| Year | Revenue (£) | Expenditure (£) |
|------|------------|----------------|
| 1883 | 588        | 5,240          |
| 1884 | 8,388      | 6,590          |
| 1885 | 11,284     | 7,816          |
| 1886 | 12,225     | 10,071         |
| 1887 | 14,149     | 15,784         |
| 1888 | 82,878     | 84,094         |

Civil Establishment.

Governor, Sir C. B. H. Mitchell, K.C.M.G., 1,000l.
Secretary for Zululand, William Windham, 100l.
Clerk, J. Windham, 125l.
Resident Commissioner and Chief Magistrate, (Eshowe) Melmoth Osborn, C.M.G., 1,000l., and 200l. allowance.

Assistant Commissioners and Resident Magistrates.

Ngutu District, Major A. H. Addison, 450l.
Clerk and Interpreter, A. Muirhead, 125l.
Nkandhia District, Arthur J. Shepstone, 450l.
Clerk and Interpreter, G. B. Carbutt, 125l.
Entonjaneni District, J. L. Knight, 450l.
Clerk and Interpreter, G. W. Adamson, 125l.
Nkwandwe District, J. Y. Gibson, 450l.
Clerk and Interpreter, C. C. Foxon, 125l.
Lower Umfolozi District, A. Boast, 450l.
Clerk and Interpreter, A. R. R. Turnbull, 125l.
Resident Magistrate, Eshowe District, C. R. Saunders, 400l.
Clerk and Interpreter, W. W. Barker, 125l.
Legal Adviser, Crown Prosecutor, Registrar of Deeds, and Registrar-General, H. C. Koch, 250l.
Police, Commandant, G. Mansel, 600l.
Sub-Inspectors, J. H. Osborn, C. E. Pierce, M. J. Hime, and J. B. Marshall, 250l. each.
Postmaster, Eshowe, J. B. Faye, 24l.
ditto Inyoni, J. L. Stokkeland, 12l.
ditto Nondiceni, F. M. May, 12l.
ditto Entonjaneni, G. W. Adamson, 12l.
ditto Rorke's Drift, A. Muirhead.
European Constable and Messenger, Eshowe, J. B. Faye, 84l.
ditto Entonjaneni, J. S. McAlister, 84l.
Gaoler, Eshowe, R. Castle, 84l.
