BECHUANALAND PROTECTORATE.

Situation and Area.

The territory of the Bechuanaland Protectorate is bounded on the south by the Cape Colony, on the east by the South African Republic, on the north by the British South Africa Company's territory and the Zambesi River, and on the west by German territory. Its area is estimated at about 386,200 square miles, and the native population at about 100,000. The European population does not exceed 500.

History.

During the year 1885 Sir Charles Warren, who was in command of an expedition despatched from England to pacify Southern Bechuanaland, where for some time previously hostilities had been proceeding between the Bechuanas and Boers from the South African Republic, visited the principal chiefs in Northern Bechuanaland (known as the Bechuanaland Protectorate) Khama, Gaseise, and Sebele, and as a result a British Protectorate was proclaimed over their territories. No further steps were taken until the year 1891, when by an Order in Council dated 9th May, the limits of the Bechuanaland Protectorate were more clearly defined, and the High Commissioner was authorised to appoint such officers as might appear to him to be necessary to provide for the administration of justice, the raising of revenue, and generally for the peace, order, and good government of all persons within the limits of the Order. Sir Sidney Shippard, the Administrator of Bechuanaland, was appointed Resident Commissioner, and an Assistant Commissioner was appointed for the Northern Protectorate, and another for the Southern Protectorate.

For fiscal and several other purposes the Protectorate was treated as a portion of the Crown Colony of British Bechuanaland, until the latter was annexed to the Cape Colony on the 15th November, 1895. In the autumn of that year arrangements were made for the transfer of the administration of the Bechuanaland Protectorate, with the exception of certain reserves for native chiefs, to the British South African Company, and the Company's police were moved down to a camp in the Protectorate at Pitsani Potlogo. On the 29th of December Dr. Jameson, with his police, crossed the border of the South African Republic and marched towards Johannesburg, which was at the time in a state of great unrest, but being defeated by the Boers at Doornkop, surrendered on the 2nd January, 1896. In consequence of the raid the administration of the Protectorate was not transferred to the Company. Since the annexation of British Bechuanaland to the Cape the Protectorate has been governed as a separate territory under the name of the Bechuanaland Protectorate, and the form of government is very similar to that which obtains in Basutoland. There is a Resident Commissioner, who is under the direction of the High Commissioner, and there are two Assistant Commissioners, one stationed at Palapye, Khama's Town, in the Northern Protectorate, and the other at Gaberones, in the Southern Protectorate. For the maintenance of law and order there is a Division of the B.S.A. Police, with 10 officers and 130 rank and file, and a force of native police with 4 officers, who are subordinate to the Commandant of the European force. These troops are stationed in small detachments at various places in the Protectorate. The headquarters is at Mafeking, in British Bechuanaland, which also remains the headquarters of the Resident Commissioner.

Climate, &c.

The climate is generally healthy excepting on the north-eastern border along the Crocodile River, where, during the summer months, malarial fever is prevalent.

The principal chiefs are:

1. Sekgogoni, who lives at Lake N'Gami, near to which there is a small detachment of police.
2. Khama, Chief of the Bamangwato, whose town is Palapye.
3. Linchwe, Chief of the Bakhatla, who lives at Mochudi.
4. Sebele, Chief of the Bakwena, who lives at Molepolole.
5. Bathoen, Chief of the Bangwaketsi, who lives at Ramoutsu.

The railway connecting Buluwayo with the Cape has now been carried through the Protectorate, and is likely to prove of great advantage to the territory. It is worked by the Cape Government Railway, and the postal department is administered by the Postmaster-General of the Cape Colony.

The estimated expenditure for the year ending 31st March, 1899, is £9,381l., and the estimated revenue £6,330l. Of the estimated expenditure £20,000l. is for a subsidy to the Railway Company.

Establishment.

Resident Commissioner, Major H. Goold Adams, C.B., C.M.G., £1,000l., and 200l. travelling allowance.

Accountant to Resident Commissioner, Barry May, £50l.

Clerk to Resident Commissioner, Albert Russell.

Assistant Commissioner Northern Protectorate, J. A. Ashburnham, £60l.

Clerk, G. S. Vintcent, £250l.

Assistant Commissioner Southern Protectorate, W. H. Surmon, £800l., and 200l. travelling allowance.

Clerk, J. Ellenberger, £800l., and 50l. travelling allowance.

Acting Special Commissioner in Ngameland, Major F. Panzera, £800l.

Police.

European Troop:

Commandant, J. A. H. Walford, £500l.

Inspectors, A. P. Williams and Hon. D. Marsham, £400l. each.

Sub-Inspectors, W. Scholesfield, C. A. K. Pechell, H. J. Kinsman, and R. M. Daniel, £300l. each.

Paymaster, H. Greener, 20s. per diem.

Quartermaster, F. Tighe, £400l.

Medical Officers, F. A. Holmden and E. C. F. Garraway, £450l. each.

Ordnance and Commissariat Officer, W. J. Hepworth, £400l.

Native Troop:

Inspector, J. Griffith, £450l.

Sub-Inspectors, H. Martin, H. Fielding, W. B. Surmon, £800l. each.

