RHODESIA.

Rhodesia is the name of the country under the administration of the British South Africa Company, and is divided by the river Zambesi into Northern and Southern Rhodesia. Northern Rhodesia consists of the whole of the British sphere lying between the Portuguese Settlements, German East Africa, and the Congo Free State, with the exception of the strip of territory forming the British Central Africa Protectorate, which is under direct Imperial Administration. Southern Rhodesia is formed by the two provinces of Mashonaland and Matabeleland.

On the 29th October, 1899, a Royal Charter was granted to the British South Africa Company, conferring upon it large powers of administration to carry out the objects for which it was formed, the principal being to extend northwards the railway and telegraph systems of the Cape Colony and Bechuanaland, to encourage emigration and colonisation, to promote trade and commerce, and to develop and work mineral and other concessions. The principal field of the operations of the Company is defined to be the region of South Africa lying immediately to the north of British Bechuanaland, to the north and west of the South African Republic, and to the west of the Portuguese dominions.

Early in 1890 a police force of Europeans was raised and equipped, and in June of that year, after obtaining permission from King Lo Bengula, a pioneer expedition on a large scale was organised to cut a road from a point on the Macaltsie River, a tributary of the Limpopo, through the south-eastern part of Matabeleland into Mashonaland, the objective point of the expedition being Mount Hampden, near which large belts of gold-bearing quartz were known to exist. This point was reached on 12th Sept., 1890. The pioneers were then disbanded, and, in accordance with the agreement made with them, were allowed to peg off auriferous claims.

In July 1893 the Matabele made a raid into Mashonaland, and killed several natives living under the Company's protection, near Victoria, when they were attacked and driven back by the Company's Police. After an unsuccessful attempt to arrange matters preparations were made for the invasion of Matabeleland, to anticipate an expected attack on the Bechuanaland Protectorate and Mashonaland. The Company's Police and a large force of volunteers and native allies advanced on Bulawayo from the north and east, while the Bechuanaland Police, which had been largely reinforced, advanced with Khama and some 2,000 of his men by way of Tati from the south. Two successful engagements were fought by the Company's force near Bulawayo, in which the Matabele suffered very severely. The Bechuanaland Police were also attacked by a strong force of Matabele, which they repulsed with great loss. Lo Bengula fled, and Bulawayo was occupied, and a force sent in pursuit of the king.

This force was unfortunately divided by the sudden rising of the River Shangani, and Major Wilson with a small party of men were after a heroic resistance killed to a man. Arrangements for the future administration of the country were completed by the High Commissioner and Mr. Rhodes on behalf of the Company. Lo Bengula, who was said to be endeavouring to escape across the Zambezi, is reported to have died from smallpox or fever.

At the end of 1895 occurred Dr. Jameson's raid into the Transvaal (see also under Bechuanaland Protectorate), which resulted in measures being taken to give the High Commissioner increased control over the Company's administration, especially the police. These were subsequently embodied in the Southern Rhodesia Order in Council 1898.

In 1896, owing to a variety of causes, the Matabele broke out in rebellion, and shortly after the Mashonas followed suit. Imperial troops had to be sent to the assistance of the Company's police and volunteers, and it was only after a prolonged struggle that peace was secured.

The capital of Mashonaland, and the seat of government, is Salisbury; the principal town of Matabeleland, and the chief commercial centre of Rhodesia, is Bulawayo. Both Salisbury and Bulawayo have recently been constituted municipalities. The population of Salisbury is approximately 1,800; and that of Bulawayo approximately 5,000. The elevation of these towns is
between four and five thousand feet above sea level, and the climate is healthy.

The Standard Bank of South Africa has established branches at Salisbury, Bulawayo, Umtali, and Gwelo; the Bank of Africa, at Salisbury, Bulawayo, Umtali and Beira; and the African Banking Corporation at Salisbury and Bulawayo.

There are hospitals at Salisbury, Bulawayo, Victoria, Umtali, and Gwelo which have been thoroughly equipped, and are maintained at a high state of efficiency. Considerable additions have been made to the hospital buildings at Salisbury and Bulawayo; and at Umtali and Gwelo new and extensive buildings have been erected; In the outlying districts of Filabusi, Hartley, and Abercorn small field hospitals have been established.

There are several clubs at Salisbury and Bulawayo, and daily and weekly papers are published in both towns.

Public roads in Rhodesia have been made to the extent of 2,230 miles, and telegraph lines to the extent of 1,856 miles of line, and 2,583 miles of wire.

The African Transcontinental Telegraph Company has constructed a telegraph line from Umtali, in Mashonaland, to Tete, from Tete to Blantyre (British Central Africa), from Blantyre to Zomba, from Zomba to Fort Johnston, and from thence to Kota Kota, on the western shore of Lake Nyasa. In August last the line was practically completed from Kota Kota to Karonga, at the north-western end of Lake Nyasa. From Karonga the survey was finished more than half way across to Abercorn, at the south end of Lake Tanganyika, and from Abercorn to the Congo boundary west of Tanganyika, and a branch to Kituta. There were, in August last, six offices of the African Transcontinental Telegraph Company's line north of the Zambesi, viz.—on the main line—Chikwawa, Blantyre, Zomba, Liwonde, Fort Johnston, and Kota Kota. Chiromo is connected by a branch line from Chikwawa by means of which communication is possible with Chinde. Blantyre is the transmitting office for all traffic from Europe and South Africa. Telegraphic communication between Blantyre and Umtali was established on the 20th April, 1898. The transmission of the telegram from Blantyre to London announcing the fact occupied less than two hours.

The Bechuanaland Railway reached Bulawayo on the 19th of October, 1897, and was formally opened on the 4th of November. An extension of the Beira Railway from its present terminus at Umtali to Salisbury is in hand, and will shortly be completed. This will place Salisbury in direct communication with the sea over a line 382 miles in length. The total length of railway lines in Rhodesia will then be 1,086 miles. Other railway schemes are under consideration, the most important of which is the extension of the Bechuanaland Railway from Bulawayo to Lake Tanganyika.

The mail services throughout Rhodesia have been greatly improved. Regular communication between Salisbury and Bulawayo and the outlying districts, and a monthly service with Bechuanaland, have been established. The time taken by mails to reach England has now been reduced to three weeks from Bulawayo, and four from Salisbury.

Telegraphic communication continues to be rapidly established. In Salisbury, Bulawayo, and Umtali it is being worked very satisfactorily.

A sale of stands in Salisbury, New Umtali, Melsetter, and the new township of Enkeldoorn was held at Salisbury on the 14th, 15th and 16th September, 1897. The following prices were obtained:

| Location       | Number of Stands | Price (£) |
|----------------|------------------|-----------|
| Salisbury      | 75               | 21,470    |
| New Umtali     | 77               | 25,715    |
| Melsetter      | 80               | 8,860     |
| Enkeldoorn     | 100              | 8,705     |

Total: £59,750

A sale of town and suburban stands in Bulawayo and Gwelo was held at Bulawayo on the 8th and 9th November, 1897, with the following results:

| Location       | Number of Stands | Price (£) |
|----------------|------------------|-----------|
| Bulawayo       | 95 town stands   | 32,815    |
|                | 11 suburban stands | 4,400    |
| Gwelo          | 26 town stands   | 6,140     |

Total: £43,355

The rinderpest, which for several years has been devastating Africa, travelling slowly through the continent from north to south, made its first appearance in Matabeleland in February, 1896. The adoption of the drastic regulations which the Administration decided to enforce had to some extent checked the progress of the epidemic, when the outbreak of the rebellion put a stop to all precautionary measures. The effects of the disease have been far-reaching, and, apart from considerations of human life, have been more disastrous than those of the native rebellion. During the 12 months succeeding the outbreak of the rebellion, agriculture was practically at a standstill.

Since the pacification of the country, considerable tracts of land have been placed under cultivation, and fresh stock is being imported. Good prices are being obtained, both for stock and produce. Throughout the country the conditions of soil and climate are suitable for all kinds of European cereals and vegetables, and, in addition, many trees, shrubs and plants peculiar to sub-tropical regions can be successfully cultivated. Good results have already been obtained from the introduction of fruit and other trees. Tobacco occurs in a wild state, is grown universally by the natives, and has been produced of excellent quality by white farmers in several districts. India-rubber, indigo, and cotton are similarly indigenous, and will probably well repay cultivation. In the neighbourhood of Bulawayo there were at the date of the last report 78 market gardens under cultivation; and vegetables of excellent quality were sold during the half-year ending September 30th, 1897, to the value of 9,630L. The vegetables which do best are cabbages, lettuces, beetroot, turnips, carrots and onions. Large fruit orchards are in course of formation, and all fruit trees thrive. Grapes, figs, oranges, peaches, almonds, walnuts, lemons, bananas, quinces, apples, apricots, and pomegranates, of good quality, are produced.

The sale of dairy produce is a profitable industry in the neighbourhood of the towns, and butter and milk of excellent quality can be obtained.

Farm stock in Rhodesia includes cattle, sheep, goats, poultry, horses, and pigs. The latter are largely bred and are always profitable and successful. It is believed that Angora goats and Merino sheep will thrive.

The Rhodesian forests produce abundance of hard timber of fine quality, and a company is working this industry with a view to meeting the large demand for building and other purposes in Salisbury and Bulawayo.
In addition to gold, silver, copper, coal, tin, plumbago, antimony, arsenic and kieselguhr have been discovered. The arrival of the railway at Bulawayo has given an impetus to the mining industry. Many mines have machinery on the ground, and the results of several crushings have been already announced. With the development of the industry, a large increase in the imports of machinery and mining plant from England must take place.

North of the Zambesi, the country has as yet been little prospected. Coal has been found on the shore of Lake Nyassa. The North Charterland Exploration Company, which holds a grant of 10,000 square miles north of the Zambesi, is engaged in trading, agricultural, and stock-breeding operations. On the hills, which range from 2,000 to 5,000 feet, it is hoped to grow coffee with success. The company is also introducing the Angora goat, and the introduction of certain breeds of sheep is contemplated. In the uplands of Northern Rhodesia, cereals and European fruit trees grow well. A new industry has lately been started in fibre, on which the representative of a large London company has been experimenting with satisfactory results. The rope made from the fibre is reported to be infinitely superior to the best Manila; and as the fibre plant grows very generally all over the country a great future is anticipated for the trade. In Southern Rhodesia a company is being formed to develop the indiarubber industry on a large scale.

Provision was made by the Matabeleland Order in Council, 1894, for an appeal in civil matters from the High Court to the Supreme Court of the Cape Colony, subject to the assent of the Legislature of the Colony being obtained. This right of appeal is limited to cases in which the amount of value in dispute exceeds one hundred pounds sterling. During the session of 1896 the necessary assent was given by the Cape Parliament by Sections 44 to 49 of the Act for the Better Administration of Justice, which were put into force in Rhodesia from the 1st November, 1896, by proclamation of the High Commissioner. As a further result of these enactments, an appeal now lies to the Privy Council from the Supreme Court upon the same conditions as in the Cape Colony.

Full advantage has been taken of the facilities afforded to the Administrator in Council by the Matabeleland Order in Council, 1894, to legislate locally, by means of regulations, and upwards of forty useful measures have been thus passed. Several Ordinances have also become law. An Order in Council, entitled the Southern Rhodesia Order in Council, 1898, has been passed repealing the Matabeleland Order in Council, 1894, and in some measure providing for a new constitution in Southern Rhodesia, one element of which is the creation of a Legislative Council containing 5 nominated and 4 elected members. The Order in Council gives large powers of control to the High Commissioner (see under South Africa). A Customs Clause in the new Order provides that the duty on British goods imported into Southern Rhodesia shall not exceed the present Cape tariff. By a proclamation, dated the 10th day of June, 1891, the laws of the Cape Colony passed prior to that date were adopted for and are to be administered in Rhodesia, as far as the circumstances of the country will permit. This enactment is made subject to certain specific provisions contained in the Proclamation which deal with the jurisdiction and procedure of the Courts, and the powers of resident commissioners and magistrates, and with the jurisdiction to be exercised, under certain circumstances, by native chiefs. The laws of the Cape Colony passed subsequently to the above-mentioned date are not to apply to Rhodesia.

Full details as to the Administration of Rhodesia, and as to climate and products, with routes to and from Rhodesia, can be obtained from the recently issued reports to be had on application at the Company's office, 15, St. Swithin's Lane, London, E.C.

Board of Directors:

His Grace The Duke of Abercorn, K.G., President.
The Right Hon. Earl Grey, Vice-President.
The Right Hon. C. J. Rhodes, M.L.A.
The Right Hon. Lord Gifford, V.C.
Sir Sidney Shippard, K.C.M.G.
Rochfort Maguire, Esq.

Senior Administrator, Mashonaland, W. H. Milton, Esq., Salisbury.

Administrator, Matabeleland, Captain the Hon. Arthur Lawley, Bulawayo.

Imperial Resident Commissioner, Rhodesia, Sir Marshal J. Clarke, K.C.M.G.

Imperial Commandant-General, Captain J. S. Nicholson.

Head Office, 15, St. Swithin's Lane, E.C.

Manager, H. Wilson Fox.

Secretary, J. F. Jones.

Registrar, E. C. Clegg.

