ADEN

ADEN COLONY

Situation and Area

The Colony of Aden is situated in latitude 12° 47' N. and longitude 45° 10' E. about 100 miles east of the Straits of Bab el Mandeb on the south coast of Arabia.

The island of Perim in the Straits of Bab el Mandeb and the Kuria Muria Islands, five in number, off the Dhufar coast of Oman, also form part of the colony.

The total area of the Colony, exclusive of Perim, is 75 square miles, that of Aden proper, 21 square miles, and Little Aden 15 square miles. The flat strip of coast joining the peninsulas is about 39 square miles in extent.

Climate

The climate of Aden Colony is not unhealthy though the heat and humidity are trying between April and October. During the north-east monsoon, that is, between the latter part of October and April, the climate is generally cool and pleasant. During the south-west monsoon, i.e., in July and August, strong winds prevail which give some relief from the damp airless heat of May, June and September. Sandstorms are apt to occur in the months of May, June, July and August. These come from a northerly direction usually a short time before sunset and are often very intense, though of short duration. The weather during July and August is frequently very hazy, and it is not uncommon for ships to pass quite close to Aden without picking up the land. The rainfall is extremely scanty and in some years non-existent; but as much as eight inches have been known to fall in a year.

General Description

The Colony of Aden consists of two extinct volcanic craters forming rocky peninsulas joined by a flat sandy foreshore. Aden proper is on the south and Little Aden on the west. The peninsulas form the horns of Aden Bay, which is about eight miles broad from east to west and about four miles deep. Its entrance is about three miles across. On the west side of the Aden Peninsula is Steamer Point the principal military and port area.

The Aden Peninsula is arid, rocky and of volcanic formation and Jabal Shamsan, its summit, is 1,808 feet (551 m.) high. Crater, the main Arab town, is situated five miles from the main port and lies in the crater of the extinct volcano forming the peninsula.

The isthmus is a flat sandy plain, barely three-quarters of a mile wide at its narrowest point near the peninsula, joining the latter with the mainland and containing the colony's principal aerodrome.

Some cultivation occurs at Sheikh Othman, at the base of the isthmus, in a garden under the management of the Township Authority, but except during the cold weather months produce is very limited. There are also privately-owned date gardens there. Hiswa, on the shore of Aden Bay, has groves of toddy palms. Salt is manufactured in large quantities on the flat shores of the bay, by the process of open evaporation.

Perim Island, situated in the Straits of Bab el Mandeb, is bare, rocky and flat: its highest point, about a mile northward of its southern extremity, is 214 feet (65 m.) high. The surface of the island is grooved with dry water courses and covered with coarse grass and stunted shrubs, the subsoil being sand and conglomerate coral. It possesses a good small harbour on the southwest side, with an entrance 860 yards in breadth, and an emergency landing ground on the north side.

Population

The total population at the time of the census taken in October, 1946, was 80,516 (males, 50,589, females, 29,927).

Divisions

Crater ........................................... 36,231
Tawahi and Steamer Point (including military areas and Hedjuff) ................. 12,729
Maalla and Khormaksar ...................... 7,889
Sheikh Othman town .......................... 19,407
Outlying villages such as Imad, Hiswa, Little Aden and Bir Fadi Aerodrome. .......... 4,260

Races

Arabs ............................................ 58,455
Jews ............................................. 7,273
Somalis .......................................... 4,322
Indians .......................................... 9,456
Europeans ....................................... 365
Others ............................................ 645

The total population of Perim was 360 (202 males, 158 females)—Races: Moslem 359, Hindus 1.

Religion

The majority of the population is Moslem but there are communities of Jews, Hindus and Zoroastrians. There are two Anglican churches and two Roman Catholic churches, one of each situated in Steamer Point and Crater, and one Presbyterian and Methodist church in Steamer Point.

History

Aden, after being a trade centre under its native kings, became subject in succession to the Abyssinians, the Persians and the early Caliphs. In 1338 it was captured by the Turks, who lost it some years later, but captured it again in 1551 and held it until they evacuated the Yemen in 1630. The Aden Peninsula was occupied by the British in 1839, and in 1868 Little Aden was obtained by purchase. The coastal strip between the two peninsulas was secured by purchase in 1882 and 1888.

Perim Island was first occupied by the French in 1738. In 1799 the British took formal possession but evacuated the island in the same year. It was later reoccupied by the British in January, 1857, and placed under the control of an Assistant to the Political Resident at Aden. In 1929, the manager of the Perim Coal Company was appointed Government Agent, but on the closing down of that company in October, 1936, the Commissioner of Police, Aden, was appointed Administrator of the island. A police detachment is maintained at Perim, and the Administrator makes regular visits from Aden, usually by air.

Constitution

Under the provisions of the Government of India Act, 1935, and the Aden Colony Order, 1936, the Chief Commissioner's Province of Aden ceased to be a part of British India and was constituted as a Colony of Aden as from 1st April, 1937.
Under the Royal Instructions dated 3rd March, 1937, as subsequently amended by Additional Instructions dated 2nd July, 1940, and dated 3rd July, 1948, the Executive Council of the Colony consists of the officers lawfully discharging the functions of Chief Secretary, Attorney-General and Financial Secretary and such other persons as may from time to time be appointed by His Majesty by any Instructions or Warrants under His Sign Manual and Signet, or as the Governor may, by an Instrument under the Public Seal of the Colony, appoint in pursuance of instructions from His Majesty through one of His Principal Secretaries of State, or as the Governor may provisionally appoint in the manner provided in the Royal Instructions.

Whenever upon any special occasion the Governor desires to obtain the advice of any person within the Colony relating to affairs therein, he may summon such person, for such special occasion, as an Extraordinary Member of the Council.

Under the provisions of the Aden Colony (Amendment) Order, 1944, which was brought into force from 24th October, 1946 a Legislative Council was constituted for the Colony of Aden.

The Council was inaugurated in January, 1947, and consists of the Governor as President, four ex officio members, not more than four official members and not more than eight unofficial members.

The ex officio members are the senior officer for the time being in and stationed in the Colony in command of His Majesty’s Regular Forces therein (excluding the Governor or officer administering the government of the Colony) and the persons for the time being lawfully discharging the functions of the respective offices of Chief Secretary, Attorney General and Financial Secretary of the Colony.

The official members are persons holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony and subject to the provisions of Section 8 of the above cited Order, are appointed by Instructions or Warrant under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet, or by the Governor by an Instrument under the Public Seal of the Colony in pursuance of His Majesty’s Instructions through the Secretary of State.

The unofficial members are persons not holding office of emolument under the Crown in the Colony, and subject to the provisions of Section 8 of the above cited Order, are appointed by Instructions or Warrant under His Majesty’s Sign Manual and Signet, or by the Governor by an Instrument under the Public Seal of the Colony in pursuance of His Majesty’s Instructions through the Secretary of State.

The Governor of the Colony is also Governor of the Aden Protectorate, which is not administered by the Colony Government. The Governor is empowered and commanded to exercise on His Majesty’s behalf all such powers and jurisdiction as His Majesty now has, or may from time to time be enjoined upon him, in accordance with the Aden Protectorate Order dated 18th March, 1937, as amended by Aden Protectorate (Amendment) Order, 1940 and the Aden Protectorate Royal Instructions dated 24th March, 1937.

ADMINISTRATION

The colony is administered by a Governor, who is also Commander-in-Chief, aided by an Executive Council which at present comprises six members.

Under the provisions of the Aden Colony (Amendment) Order, 1944, which came into force on 24th October, 1946, a Legislative Council was established in Aden in January, 1947. There is no one Government for the Aden Protectorate. In each of the Western and Eastern protectorates the Governor is represented by a British agent who deals with the various Rulers and Treaty Chiefs on the basis of treaties concluded with them. The Protectorate includes the island of Socotra.

The administration of justice within the Colony is entrusted to the Supreme Court, a Court of Small Causes for certain specified civil cases and Magistrates courts for criminal cases. Under the provisions of the Aden Colony (Amendment) Order in Council, 1947, appeals from the Supreme Court now lie to the Court of Appeal of Eastern Africa, and thence to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council.

The law of the Protectorate is largely tribal custom, but in certain chiefdoms the Shafai Code of Moslem law (Shari’a) is recognised, especially in the Qu’aiti State of Shehr and Mukalla (Ruler, His Highness Sultan Sir Saleh bin Ghalib al Qu’aiti, K.C.M.G.) which State legislates by published decrees.

Aden is a free port and there is no customs tariff. Excise duty is, however, levied on a specific duty basis on spirits, wines and beer, perfumed spirits, intoxicating and dangerous drugs, tobacco and motor spirit.

Under the Townships Ordinance, 1945, Township Authorities for the towns of Aden and for Sheikh Othman were constituted, and the various municipal operations formerly carried out by the Executive Committee of the Aden Settlement now devolve on the Township Authorities.

SOCIAL SERVICES

Education

Education in Aden Colony is under the control of the Director of Education. In the Eastern and Western Aden Protectorate it is, in common with other services, under the immediate general guidance of the British Agents. But the Aden Government Department of Education inspects schools within the area, gives such advice and assistance as is required and co-ordinates, in so far as possible, educational development throughout the whole territory. A number of new primary schools are in the process of being built.

In the Colony, the Government maintains six boys’ and four girls’ primary schools and one boys’ secondary school. Two post-primary classes have been started in one of the girls’ schools. There are in addition five aided primary and two aided secondary schools or sections of schools for boys and two aided primary and two aided secondary schools for girls, as well as several unrecognised schools.

In all schools in the Colony there are approximately 3,334 pupils in primary or indigenous schools (including 765 girls) and 1,141 pupils in secondary schools (including 147 girls).

There is no post-secondary education given in the Colony at present but Aden College, the new secondary school, is due to open in January, 1951. Plans have already been prepared and the College is scheduled to include post-secondary classes.
A number of students are sent abroad on scholarships for further education and a nominated scholarship Committee investigates and advises the Government on scholarships to be awarded.

Classes for adult females are conducted at the Government Girls' School. Commercial classes are held at the Government Secondary School and at a privately run commercial institution.

Small committees of parents have been formed for each primary school in substitution of the advisory committee. A teacher training section has now been added to the Government Secondary School.

The Technical Instructor has introduced handwork into the primary and lower secondary schools. The Technical College is due to open in January, 1951.

The British Council opened an Institute for men in 1940 and an Institute for women in 1942.

**Information Services**

The Aden Information Office services cover the Colony and Protectorate in respect of which a grant is received from His Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom.

These services consist of a system of communiques to the local Aden press, and to the general public; mobile film units, which show newsreels and documentary films to public cinemas, and for free exhibition to clubs, hospitals, barracks and public show in market places (this service will shortly be available to Aden Protectorate); distribution of British, Arab and Indian publications to clubs, merchants' associations, and other interested bodies; exhibitions of posters and photographs and such publicity material of interest to the local population; the provision of copy regarding Aden to Britain and other countries for publication.

Public address speakers operated from the Information Office, are installed at the main centres of the town and used to give announcements of public interest and the installation of a Radio Rediffusion system is under investigation.

Information services are under the District Commissioner as Information Officer, assisted by an Advisory Committee on which the local unofficial opinions of the English, Arab, and Indian communities are represented.

**Health**

There is a Government civil hospital (300 beds) in Crater, and a maternity and child welfare clinic (15 maternity beds and two children's wards of five beds each). There is a hospital of the Keith Falconer Mission at Sheikh Othman (60 beds).

There are three Government dispensaries, one in each division of the town, excluding Crater, two dispensaries administered by charitable organisations for the sick poor, and a small Government dispensary at Perim Island.

Public health work is supervised by a Medical Officer of Health under the control of the Director of Medical Services. The infectious diseases hospital (100 beds) is also under his care.

The Port Health Officer is responsible for the out-patient treatment of members of the merchant navies on vessels in port. He is also in charge of routine quarantine administration and the maintenance of Flint Island quarantine station.

**Labour**

There are at present no organised labour services in the Colony, but the District Commissioner is in charge of labour matters, and the Assistant Welfare Officer appointed in 1948, assists in providing liaison between the working classes and the Government. Aden born Arabs are not engaged as labour to any great extent, but are traders, clerks, artisans (particularly carpenters), fishermen, drivers and mechanics. The large number of coolies employed by the salt works, shipping concerns and contractors are drawn from the Aden Protectorate or the Yemen. The small harbour craft are mostly manned by Somalis.

**Welfare**

Prior to 1948, no special provision was made for Welfare Services, but in 1948 an Assistant Welfare Officer was appointed and took up duties under the supervision of the District Commissioner.

His work includes investigation into the background of juvenile offenders who are brought before the Court, assisting towards the organisation of Youth Clubs, and he has also been employed ad hoc on labour investigation in the case of strikes.

The expansion of a Social Services Department is provided for, with the appointment of a full-time Welfare Officer, but no candidate has yet been appointed.

**Communications**

**Roads**

Communication between the various townships is by road. The main roads are constructed in bituminous macadam and the carriageways average 20 feet in width. Many secondary roads are similarly constructed, and a programme for making up the Bazaar roads is now in hand. The mileage of roads in the Colony at 31st December, 1948, is as under:

| Bituminous macadam | Water-bound macadam | Unmade roads | Total |
|--------------------|---------------------|-------------|-------|
| miles              | miles               | miles       | miles |
| 51·12              | 8·74                | 14·41       | 74·27 |

This increase is due to Government having taken over the Sheikh Othman Little Aden Road from the Military.

**Railways**

There are no railways in Aden.

**Shipping**

The Port, which is administered by a Board of Trustees formed in 1888 under the Aden Port Trust Act of 1888, has been considerably improved in recent years.

The harbour now has 19 first-class berths, 5 second-class berths, and 8 third-class berths suitable for vessels ranging from 300 feet to 700 feet in length. Vessels of greater length can be accommodated if necessary. The approach channel and the major portion of the mooring basin is dredged to 36 feet. There are ten oiling berths, seven on the south side operated by the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company and three on the...
north side operated by Caltex (Aden), Ltd. Oil can be delivered to ships at a rate of up to 800 tons an hour.

The Port Trust owns two powerful tugs and the Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation Company have a large tug of their own which is available to the Port Trust for use in berthing and unberthing vessels. The Port Trust tugs are fitted with fire-fighting apparatus. There are four floating docks, the largest of which can lift 2,000 tons. There are approximately fifteen small privately-owned tugs suitable for lighter work and some 150 lighters for handling cargo and coal. Separate jetties have been constructed for the handling of petroleum and ammunition and there are numerous private and public wharves alongside which lighters can discharge. Shed accommodation is available on some of the wharves and the Port Trust owns sheds at Maalla covering an area of 16,300 sq. yards. The Port Trust has a well-equipped workshop and employs three divers for work in the harbour. Repairs to hull and machinery can be carried out in the workshops of local firms.

The vessels of the principal steamship companies call regularly at Aden and during the twelve months ending 31st March, 1949, 3,241 ships called, representing a total tonnage of 12,950,565 tons.

Air

There are no internal colony air services. Aden Airways, a B.O.A.C. subsidiary, operates five scheduled services as follows:

(1) To Cairo and then onwards to United Kingdom via Djibouti, Kamaran, Asmara, Port Sudan and Jeddah.
(2) To Cairo and then onwards to United Kingdom via Asmara, Khartoum.
(3) To Nairobi via Hargeisa and Mogadishu.
(4) To Addis-Ababa via Djibouti.
(5) To Addis-Ababa directly.

Ethiopian Air Lines operate scheduled services between Addis Ababa and Aden with intermediate stops at Diredawa and Djibouti. This Company also occasionally undertakes charter flights to Karachi and Bombay via Aden.

Indian Overseas Airlines make frequent charter flights between Bombay and Nairobi, calling at Aden on both inward and outward journeys.

In addition Aden Airways run a fortnightly service to Riyam (Mukalla) during the monsoon season when dhow traffic is impracticable.

The R.A.F. airfield at Mukheiras on the Audhali platform has been extended to take Dakota aircraft and charter flights are made between Aden and Mukheiras every week by Aden Airways.

Posts and Telephones

Mails

Surface mails between Aden and all parts of the world are exchanged as opportunity offers by the frequent, but for the time being irregular, steamship services using the port.

Air mails to and from all parts of the world are exchanged several times weekly by the B.O.A.C. service operated between Aden and Cairo, which calls at Kamaran, Asmara, Djeddah and Port Sudan. At Cairo this service connects with the main trunk services of the B.O.A.C. operating between London and South Africa, and between London and India, Pakistan, Malaya, the Far East, and Australia. B.O.A.C. services are also used to exchange regular direct air mails with Ethiopia, the Somaliland Protectorate, Somalia, Saudi Arabia, the Eastern Aden Protectorate, and East and South Africa.

The Ethiopian air lines operate a weekly service between Addis-Ababa, Djibouti, and Aden, with an extension three times monthly to Karachi and Bombay.

Internal Telephones

An automatic telephone system serves the whole colony. There are approximately eleven hundred telephones, including those in Government offices, and offices of H.M. Forces, either connected directly to the main exchange or through private branch exchanges.

Cable and Wireless

Cable and Wireless (Mid-East), Ltd., are responsible for all external civil communications. They own and operate a cable station from which their submarine cables connect with countries all over the world. They also operate wireless telegraph services from Aden to Mukalla and Seiyun in the Eastern Aden Protectorate, and between Aden and Addis-Ababa in Abyssinia, Sanaa and Taiz in the Yemen, Djibouti in French Somaliland, Hargeisa and Berbera in the Somaliland Protectorate and Kamaran in the Red Sea. They also operate a ship-shore wireless service.

The internal telegraph system is served by underground land lines from their head office in Ras Boradli to their branch offices in Steamer Point and Crater.

PUBLIC FINANCE

Public Revenue and Expenditure

| Year    | Revenue Rs. | Expenditure Rs. |
|---------|-------------|----------------|
| 1939-40 | 27,22,901   | 19,64,583      |
| 1940-41 | 34,38,502   | 25,36,448      |
| 1941-42 | 46,71,758   | 39,53,932      |
| 1942-43 | 61,73,048   | 43,29,488      |
| 1943-44 | 17,13,398   | 48,87,732      |
| 1944-45 | 92,65,619   | 74,79,374      |
| 1945-46 | 126,22,712  | 99,51,937      |
| 1946-47 | 122,85,773  | 98,69,653      |
| 1947-48 | 121,12,421  | 92,80,621      |
| 1948-49 | 105,00,000  | 122,00,000     |

The main heads of taxation are:

1947-48 Rs.

Taxes on income ........................................... 2,108,919
Excess Profits Tax ........................................ 1,214,290
Excise duties on spirits, beer, wines and tobacco .......... 1,730,779
House property tax ranging from 8½% to 2% of rateable value on all house property in the colony ................. 242,847
Sanitation Tax ranging from 4½% to 2% of rateable value of all house property in the colony .................. 141,035
Motor spirit tax at 6 annas per gallon on all motor spirit imported ........................................ 479,810
Qat tax at Rs.2.1.0. per 20 ln. on at Qat entering the colony ........................................ 250,116
Salt tax at 4 annas per ton on salt exported ...................... 87,719

Customs Tariff and Excise Duties

There is no general customs tariff in Aden, but taxes are levied on alcoholic liquor, tobacco and
motor spirit. The principal rates of duty are given below:

- Beer and other Fermented Liquors at Rs.2.1.0 per gallon.
- Spirits potable at Rs.44 per gallon of the strength of London proof.
- Wines at Rs.5.10.0 per gallon.
- Sparkling Wines at Rs.9.14.0 per gallon.
- Perfumed Spirits at Rs.16 per gallon.
- Cigarettes at Rs.2.2.0 to Rs.6 per thousand, according to their selling price.
- Manufactured Tobacco at Rs.1.3.0 to Rs.2.6.0 per lb.
- Unmanufactured Indian Tobacco at Rs.2.6.0 per 28 lb.
- Unmanufactured Tobacco other than Indian at 45% ad valorem.
- Motor spirit at 7 annas per gallon.

The main heads of expenditure are as follows:

| Estimated 1949-50 | Rs. |
|-------------------|-----|
| 1. Education      | 643,900 |
| 2. Medical and Public Health | 1,755,759 |
| 3. Police         | 1,062,485 |
| 4. Posts and Telephones | 766,600 |
| 5. Public Works, Water and Drainage | 874,317 |
| 6. Public Works, Electricity | 1,071,645 |
| 7. Public Works recurrent | 257,000 |
| 8. Public Works extraordinary | 843,600 |
| 9. Township Authority, Aden | 419,900 |
| 10. Township Authority, Sheikh Othman | 155,660 |
| 11. Development schemes | 3,806,000 |

The colony has no public debt.

**Currency and Banking**

**Currency**

The monetary unit is the Indian rupee (silver) and is legal tender for any amount. The change of currency from the Indian rupee to the East African shilling is contemplated.

**Banking**

The National Bank of India, Ltd., is established in the colony with its chief office in the Crater and a branch at Steamer Point. The commercial firm of Messrs. Cowasjee Dinshaw & Bros. also carries on the business of banking.

There is one Savings Bank operated by the Post Office.

**Production and Trade**

**Salt**

The principal native product of Aden is salt, made from sea-water by solar evaporation in a series of pans, acres in extent. The export in 1948 amounted to 261,361 tons.

This industry is in the hands of four manufacturers—one Italian, three Indian owned. The Aden Salt Works, which was under the control of the Custodian of Enemy Property since 10th June, 1940, was handed over to the owners on 1st June, 1949. The tonnage produced during the year 1948 was 271,058 tons.

**Fisheries**

The present primitive fishery employs numerous canoes and a few small dhows propelled by oars and sails. Nets are small, as only hand-braided net is available; capital is limited and the life of the twine is short, as no preservatives are used. Only single-hook lines are employed.

**Industry**

The main industry is the bunkering of ships and the handling of cargo. These activities are in the hands of large firms—the labour employed is almost entirely immigrant Yemeni Arabs who come south for a year or two.

The entrepot trade is in the hands of large merchants, European, Indian, and Arab, who are concerned in the export of hides, skins, coffee, gums, incense and grain and in the import and distribution of all kinds of merchandise, particularly cotton piece-goods, hardware, sugar, spices, and kerosene.

There are some small factories (owned by private companies). The chief are soap works, aluminium pressing of domestic utensils, manufacture of cigarettes and dyeing and printing of cloth. These supply the local demand and provide for export to adjoining territories.

Of industries organised among small producers, the principal one is the weaving of cloth, by one-man treadle-operated handlooms. This supplies Aden and adjoining territories. Small crushing plants, with one camel turning a mill, extract sesame oil for cooking purposes.

**Imports and Exports**

| Year | Imports Rs. | Exports Rs. |
|------|-------------|-------------|
| 1940 | 5,97,81,054 | 3,10,25,365 |
| 1941 | 8,79,60,797 | 3,95,19,945 |
| 1942 | 15,00,48,884 | 7,85,37,163 |
| 1943 | 16,07,03,163 | 10,69,27,850 |
| 1944 | 18,81,85,427 | 11,49,22,054 |
| 1945 | 16,06,33,838 | 8,37,23,913 |
| 1946 | 20,67,14,450 | 9,48,96,174 |
| 1947 | 32,93,07,330 | 16,82,93,058 |

The above figures include re-exports but exclude bullion and specie.

**Aden Protectorate**

**Situation and Area**

The Aden Protectorate, which can be more conveniently described administratively and geographically by dividing it into two areas, the Western and Eastern, has a total superficial area of about 112,000 square miles. It is bounded on the east by the western boundary of the Sultanate of Muscat and Oman, on the north and west by the Ruba’ Al Khali (or Empty Quarter) and the Kingdom of the Yemen (whose southern boundary was temporarily stabilised by Article III of the Treaty of Sana’a of 11th February, 1934, by which His Majesty’s Government and the Government of the Yemen agreed to maintain the status quo as on the date of the signature of the treaty), and on the south by the Gulf of Aden and the Indian Ocean. The Aden Protectorate seaboard starts at Husn Murad (opposite Perim) on the west and runs for 740 miles eastwards to Ras Dhurbat Ali where it meets the frontier of the Sultanate of Muscat and Oman.

**Climate**

The maritime plains are damp and hot in the summer and are subject to sand storms and high winds. In the winter (October to the end of March) it is cool and sometimes cold at night and much less damp.

In the mountains, which vary in height between 1,500 and 8,000 feet, it is drier and cooler during the day and night above 2,500 feet; and above 4,500 feet it can be very cold.
In the Wadi Hadhramaut and the intervening tableland or "Jol" extremes of both heat and cold are encountered. The heat in contrast to that of the coast is dry but more intense. The rainfall is small.

There is little rainfall in the littoral and maritime hills: here cultivation is chiefly dependent on irrigation from water channels and courses. In the highlands well irrigation is common and there is heavier rainfall which is led down ravines and defiles into terraced fields.

**GENERAL DESCRIPTION**

The Western Aden Protectorate is divided into (a) the littoral belt which varies between 4 and 40 miles in depth; (b) the maritime ranges about 1,000-2,000 feet above sea level; (c) the intramontane plains over 3,000 feet high; and (d) the highland plateau ranging from 5,000 to 8,000 feet high and which falls away into the Ruba' Al Khali (or Empty Quarter) with a mean altitude of 2,500 feet. The country between the littoral belt on the one hand and the intramontane plains and the plateau on the other is a tangle of mountains, ravines and valleys. Some of the valleys are very fertile. The plateau itself is broken up by numerous hills and mountains and is intersected with several deep valleys.

The greater part of the Eastern Aden Protectorate consists of desert and barren mountains intersected by wadis, some of which are fertile and cultivated. There are a number of comparatively large towns, notably Mukalla, the capital of the Qu'a'iti State and principal seaport, and Sai'un, the capital of the Kathiri State.

The Western Aden Protectorate consists of the following tribal districts, the chiefs of which are in protective treaty relations with His Majesty's Government:

- Abdali, His Highness Sultan Fadhl Abdul Karim, Sultan of Lahej, who is the premier chief of the western area.
- Amiri, Amir Nasr bin Shaif Seif, C.M.G. Capital, Dhala.
- Fadlii, Sultan Abdullah bin Uthman. Capital, Shugra.
- Lower Yafa'i, Sultan 'Aidrus bin Muhsin. Capital, Al Qara.
- Haushabi, Sultan Muhammad bin Sarur. Capital, Musemir.
- Upper Yafa'i Confederation, Sultan Muhammad bin Salih. Capital, Mahjaba. Mausatta, Sheikh Ahmed Bubakr 'Ali 'Askar and Sheikh Husein Salih Muhsin 'Askar. Capital, Al Oudma. Dhubi, Sheikh Abdurrahman bin Saleh (under age). Regent Sheikh Salih bin Salim. Capital, Dhi Sura. Mafshi, Sheikh Qasim 'Abdurrahman. Capital, Al Jurba. Hadhrani, Sheikh Muhammad Muhsin Ghalib. Capital, Ash Shibr.
- Shaib, Sheikh Ahmed Mana' As Saqladi. Capital, Awabil.
- Quteibi, Sheikh Hasan 'Ali. Capital, Ath Thumeir.
- Alawi, Sheikh Salih Sayil. Capital, Al Qash'a. Aqrabi, Sheikh Muhammad Fadhl Ba 'Abdullah. Capital, Bir Ahmed.
- Audhali, Sultan Salih bin Husein. Capital, Zara.
- Upper 'Aulaqi, Sultan 'Awadh bin Salih bin Abdullah. Capital, Nisab, Sheikh Muhsin bin Farid. Capital, Yeshbum.
- Lower 'Aulaqi, Sultan Nasr bin 'Aidrus bin Ali (under age). Regent, Sultan Ahmed bin Ali Al Aulaqi. Capital, Ahwar.
- Beihan, Sharif Salih bin Husein. Capital, An Nuqub.

The Eastern Aden Protectorate comprises the Hadhramaut (consisting of the Qu'a'iti State of Shihr and Mukalla and the Kathiri State of Sai'un), the Mahri Sultanate of Qishn and Socotra, the Wahidi Sultanates of Balhaf and Bir 'Ali, and the Sheikdoms of Irqa and Haura, all of which have been for many years in protective treaty relations with His Majesty's Government. His Highness Sultan Sir Salih bin Ghalib al Qu'a'iti, K.C.M.G., Sultan of Shihr and Mukalla, is the premier chief in the Eastern Aden Protectorate, and the Hadhramaut is the most important and best organised of these areas. It is bounded on the west by the Wahidi Sultanates and on the east by the Mahri Sultanate.

The Mahri Sultanate of Qishn and Socotra is the most easterly area in the Aden Protectorate, being bounded on the east by the Sultanate of Muscat and Oman. The Sultan of Qishn and Socotra resides on the island of Socotra, which lies off Africa, 150 miles from Cape Guardafui. The island was occupied by the East India Company in 1834, and it came under British protection, together with the neighbouring Abdul Kuri and Brothers Islands, in 1866, when the treaty with the Mahri Sultan was concluded. Socotra produces aloes, dragons' blood and ghee. The population is probably about 5,000; the island is rather less than 100 miles from east to west and about 30 miles broad. Its interior is mountainous and the Fidahan Hajr rises to nearly 5,000 feet. The capital is Hadibu, known on European maps as Tamrida.

**POPULATION**

The population of the Aden Protectorate is roughly estimated at 630,000.

**RELIGION**

The people are Muslim Arabs of, almost entirely, the Shafa'i persuasion.

**HISTORY**

For a time in the 18th century, the Western Aden Protectorate formed part of the domain of the Imam of Sana'a (capital of the Yemen of to-day) and several of the rulers of the tribal districts such as the 'Abdali, Haushabi, Amiri, Yafa'i and 'Aulaqi sultans, were the Imam's "wakils" or governors until his power declined and they declared their independence. This occurred in 1728 in the case of the 'Abdali and in 1758 in the case of the Yafa'i.

After the occupation of Aden by the British in 1839, some of the neighbouring chiefs entered into protective treaty relations with His Majesty's Government. Others followed suit as time went on, the last to do so being the 'Audhali Sultan in 1914.

In July, 1915, during the first world war, the Turks, who then held the Yemen, occupied the 'Abdali, Haushabi and Amiri districts until the armistice of 1918.

In February, 1934, as has been stated, a Treaty of Friendship was signed between His Majesty's Government and the Kingdom of the Yemen.

In 1944 and 1945 five Western Aden Protectorate chiefs (the Fadlii, the Lower 'Aulaqi and the Lower Yafa'i sultans, the Sharif of Belhan and the Amir of Dhala') entered into closer relations with His Majesty's Government by new treaties in which they agreed, *inter alia*, to abide by the advice of the Governor of Aden in the improvement of their administrations.
The most important aspect of recent history in the Eastern Aden Protectorate has been the decline of the traditional power of the Kathiri sultans and the rise of the Qu’aiti—a dynasty with its origins among the Yafa’i tribes and influence arising from military and other services rendered as emigres to the Nizam of Hyderabad. The Qu’aiti rulers first entered into a treaty with His Majesty’s Government in 1882. This was strengthened in 1888 by the conclusion of a Protectorate treaty in the common form of the treaties with the other Protectorate chiefs. In 1918 the Kathiri sultans made an agreement with the Qu’aiti sultan acknowledging this treaty as binding on them also. In 1937 and 1939 respectively the Qu’aiti and Kathiri sultans signed treaties undertaking to accept the advice of a British Resident Adviser in all matters except those concerning Muhammadan religion and custom. Relations with the smaller states are governed by similar Protectorate treaties.

**ADMINISTRATION**

The interests of the Western Aden Protectorate are looked after by a small cadre of British political officers and Arab assistant political officers under a British Agent, whose headquarters are in Aden. The political staff who are posted to administrative districts inland advise the local rulers on the administration of their areas, since His Majesty’s Government does not administer the Protectorate directly.

The tribes nominate their own chiefs who have subsequently to be recognised by the Governor of Aden. Not all the chiefs have complete control over their subjects but, since 1943, the authority of some of them has been greatly increased by the introduction of simple administrative machinery.

For internal security some of the chiefs have tribal guards (some partly paid for by His Majesty’s Government as a temporary measure) under the joint control of the British Agent and the chief. In 1937 the Aden Government raised a force known as the Government Guards for police duties in the Western Aden Protectorate; they are stationed inland in fixed posts and are paid for and controlled entirely by Government.

In the Eastern Aden Protectorate the principal states, Qu’aiti and Kathiri, are administered by their sultans as constitutional rulers and have State councils. The Kathiri State is hampered in its development by the absence of an outlet to the sea and of the customs dues and other benefits which would result from it. The Wahidi States of Balhaf and Bir Ali have adopted simple administrations under the supervision of the British Agent and Resident Adviser, E.A.P.

**SOCIAL SERVICES**

*Education*

Education in the Aden Protectorate is under the immediate general guidance of the British Agents. The Aden Government Education Department has on its staff a Protectorate Education Officer, who inspects schools and gives advice or assistance where required. Thus although the Education Department does not directly control Education on the Protectorate it co-ordinates development, as far as possible, throughout the whole area.

The Aden Protectorate College for the Sons of Chiefs, a primary boarding school of limited size, which is situated in the colony, is the only exception to this; it is administered directly by the Department of Education.

The policy has been to encourage the Sultanates to develop their own State Education Departments, and there are now two such in existence. An Educational Assistant to the Resident Adviser, seconded from the Sudan, who is also Director of Education in the Qu’aiti State, assists the Mukalla Government in education matters. There are now over 20 primary schools at various centres and an intermediate boarding school at Gheil Ba Wazir for about 200 pupils. Several scholarships have been awarded to promising students to complete their education in the Sudan.

The other State which has its own department is Lahej, where there is an intermediate school with about 140 boys.

There is no post primary education in the Protectorate, but plans are being made to establish a secondary boarding school in the Colony, which may be available to Protectorate as well as Colony boys.

The number of primary (or lower than primary) schools which are inspected is now about 50.

The Government of Aden, in co-operation with the Church of Scotland Mission, has introduced a medical scheme in the Western Aden Protectorate which covers 12 tribal areas and employs 29 dispensers who work in 17 separate dispensaries.

**COMMUNICATIONS**

There are no railways in the Aden Protectorate but several natural roads have been improved to take motor traffic. The chief of these in the Western Aden Protectorate are:

1. Aden (north and north-westwards through Lahej to Ta’iz (Yemen) and to Dhala and Qataba (Yemen).
2. Aden westwards to Subaihi country.
3. Aden eastwards to—
   (a) Lower Yafa’,
   (b) Ahwar (Lower ‘Aulaqi).
   (c) Fadhli country.
   (d) ’Audhali country.
   (e) Dathina.

In the Eastern Aden Protectorate considerable progress has been made in recent years in road development, and routes run north of Mukalla to the Wadi Hadhrmaut, west to Meifa and Bir Ali, and east as far as Reidat Al Abdul Wadud.

Airfields are maintained by the Royal Air Force for communications of a political nature and for security work. Aden Airways have commenced a weekly service between Aden and Riyan (Mukalla). In normal times coastal steamers from Aden and a certain number of larger vessels on the India and the Far East routes call at Mukalla. Both Qu’aiti and Kathiri States belong to the Aden Postal Union and have their own issues of stamps. Cable & Wireless, Ltd., maintain a wireless link between Mukalla, Seiyun and Aden and there is a network of political wireless stations in the hinterland.

**PUBLIC REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE**

The following are the 1948–49 estimated figures of revenue and expenditure for some of the Western Aden Protectorate States:

| Revenue | Expenditure |
|---------|-------------|
| Rs.      | Rs.         |
| Fadhli   | 246,000     | 245,000     |
| Lower Aulaqi | 25,000     | 23,000     |
| Lower Yafa’ | 21,000     | 20,000     |
| Dathina  | 24,000      | 68,000      |
| Amiri State | 62,000     | 52,000      |
In some other cases administrations have only recently been set up and it is not possible to estimate their revenues as yet.

In the Eastern Aden Protectorate the revenue of the Qu’aiti State may be roughly estimated at 24 lakhs and expenditure at 23 lakhs of rupees. The principal sources of revenue are customs and excise and licence dues. The finances of the other sultanates have not yet been stabilised. In the Qu’aiti State three lakhs are spent on police and armed constabulary, 2½ lakhs on education, 3 lakhs on the army and 2½ lakhs on public works.

**Currency and Banking**

In the Western Aden Protectorate rupees and riyals (or Maria Theresa dollars) are the currency used, the present (1948) rate of exchange being 2 rupees to the riyal.

In the Eastern Aden Protectorate, up to 1944, the Maria Theresa dollar was the currency used throughout the interior but in that year the rupee currency was officially adopted. Maria Theresa dollars, however, remain the normal form of currency in the Wahidi country and vicinity.

There are no banking facilities in the Aden Protectorate.

**Trade, Industry and Agriculture**

Trade in the Western Aden Protectorate is chiefly confined to transit trade from the Yemen, from which coffee and skins are exported, but no reliable figures are available. The only industries are weaving, dyeing and charcoal-burning though some silver work is made by the few small village Jewish communities. Some 10,000 camels bring vegetables, eggs, fodder and cattle for sale in Aden every month.

Imports into the Western Aden Protectorate include kerosene, soap, ginger, tobacco, rice, flour, tea, sugar and assorted cloths, etc.

Agriculture is the chief occupation of the majority of the tribesmen of the Western Aden Protectorate. Every possible use is made of irrigation and water rights are a frequent cause of tribal feuds.

The staple crops are corn (dhurra), bulrush millet (dukhn) and some Indian corn. Wheat and barley are found at the higher altitude; other crops are sesame and lucerne; some cotton and local indigo (hawir) is also grown. Dates are grown in some areas and coffee in Yafa’. Bananas, papayas, apricots and peaches are found in the Abdali and Audhali sultanates. Honey is found in small quantities in two or three areas.

**Governors**

1937—Sir Bernard Reilly, K.C.M.G., C.I.E., O.B.E.

1940—Sir John Hathorn Hall, K.C.M.G., D.S.O., O.B.E., M.C.

1944—Sir Reginald Champion, K.C.M.G., O.B.E.

**Executive Council**

The Governor.
The Chief Secretary.
The Attorney General.
The Financial Secretary.
E. Cochrane, M.B., Ch.B., D.P.H., M.D., Director of Medical Services.
J. Goepel, District Commissioner.
T. Hickinbotham, C.I.E., O.B.E., Chairman, Aden Port Trust.

**Legislative Council**

Ex-Officio Members

The Air Officer Commanding, British Forces, Aden.

The Chief Secretary.
The Attorney General.
The Financial Secretary.

**Official Members**

E. Cochrane, M.B., Ch.B., D.P.H., M.D.
W. L. Osborne, O.B.E.
J. Goepel.
H. F. Kynaston-Snell, M.B.E.

**Unofficial Members**

T. Hickinbotham, C.I.E., O.B.E.
Sir Muhammad Mackawee, K.B.E.
Khan Bahadur Muhammad Salim Ali.
Seiyid Abdu Ghanem.
Dinshaw H. C. Dinshaw.
Sheik Muhammad Abdullah, B.A., LL.B.
J. R. Kynaston, O.B.E.
Selim Menahem Banin (Provisional).

**Aden Protectorate**

British Agent, Western Aden Protectorate—Major B. W. Seager, O.B.E., C.M.G.
British Agent, Eastern Aden Protectorate—Colonel J. E. H. Boustead, D.S.O., O.B.E., M.C. (Designate).

**Foreign Consular Officers**

U.S.A. Consul—Charles C. Gidney, Jr.
Vice Consul—R. E. Ferris.
Italy—Dante Pollici.
France—Jacques Charreyron.
Belgium and Sweden—R. D. Stephen.
Denmark—R. D. Stephen.
Netherlands and Norway—G. R. Waddell.
Portugal—Dinshaw H. C. Dinshaw (acting).
Greece—Vice Consul—Constantine Ch. Athanassacopoulos.

**Short Select Bibliography**

Hadramaut—Some of Its Mysteries Unveiled, by D. van der Meulen. 1932.
The Southern Gates of Arabia, by Freya Stark Murray. 1936. 16s.
Seen in the Hadhramaut, by Freya Stark Murray. 1941. 8s. 6d.
Arabia and the Isles, by Harold Ingrams. Murray. 1942. 18s.
In the High Yemen, by Hugh Scott. Murray. 1942. 18s.
A Pilgrim in Arabia, by H. St. J. B. Philby. Golden Cockerel Press. 1942. £3 3s. 0d.
Islam Today, edited by A. J. Arberry and Ron Landau. Faber. 1943. 12s. 6d.
East is West, by Freya Stark. Murray. 1945. 12s. 6d.
Arabia Phoenix, by Gerald de Gaury. Harrup. 1946. 10s. 6d.
A Winter in Arabia, by Freya Stark. Murray. 1945. 8s. 6d.
Aden to the Hadhramaut, by D. van der Meulen. Murray. 1947. 18s.

**Civil Establishment**

In the following particulars of the Civil Establishment the Scales are as follows:

A—£450 for 2 years, 510 × 30–660, 720 × 30–870, 900 × 30–1,000.

B—(a) £450 for 2 years, 510 × 20–610.
(b) £660 × 30–750.
(c) £780 × 30–900.

C—£450 for 2 years, 510 × 15–600, 630 × 30–750.

N—£350, 365, 405 × 15–510.
To the above quoted basic salaries, expatriation pay is added in the case of expatriate officers, according to the following table:

| Basic Salary | Expatriation Pay |
|--------------|------------------|
| Less than £450 | £150             |
| £450–£575    | £200             |
| £576–£700    | £250             |
| £701–£825    | £300             |
| £826–£1,000  | £350             |
| £1,050–£1,350| £450             |
| £1,400 up    | £500             |

Officers provided by Government with furnished quarters are charged rent, assessed in accordance with salary.

Salaries quoted below are in every case basic, that is excluding expatriation pay.

**GOVERNOR AND PERSONAL STAFF**

Governor and Commander-in-Chief—Sir Reginald Stuart Champion, K.C.M.G., O.B.E. £2,500. £1,150 duty allowance.

Aide-de-Camp and Private Secretary—Major K. I. Nicholl. £510.

**ADMINISTRATION**

**Secretariat**

Chief Secretary—W. A. C. Goode. £1,450.

Financial Secretary—R. P. Errington. £1,200.

Assistant Chief Secretary—C. H. Newland. £1,100.

Assistant Secretaries—R. Tatton Brown, C. H. Inge, A. H. Clark Hutchinson, F. P. B. Derrick (on secondment from Kenya), A. Sequeira, M.B.E. Scale A to maximum.

Confidential Secretary—Scale B with maximum of £550.

**District and Township Administration**

District Commissioner and Chairman, Townships of Aden and Sheikh Othman—J. Goepel. £1,100.

Executive Officer, Township Authorities, Aden and Sheikh Othman—J. J. Gunn. Scale B to maximum.

**AGRICULTURE**

Director of Agriculture—B. J. Hartley, O.B.E. £1,150.

Agricultural Officers—J. L. Congdon (W.A.P.), I. E. Ketteringham (E.A.P.). Scale A to maximum.

Surveyor (Irrigation Scheme)—C. A. L. Buckton. £650–25–700.

**AUDIT**

Principal Auditor—F. E. L. Carter, O.B.E. £1,050.

Assistant Auditor—O. Clark. Scale B to maximum £810.

**CUSTOMS**

Collector of Customs, Salt and Excise—R. P. Errington (See Secretariat).

Superintendent of Customs, Salt and Excise—Rao Sahib A. N. Sabnis. Scale B to maximum £750.

**ECONOMIC CONTROL**

Controller of Civil Supplies and Price Controller—R. P. Errington (See Secretariat).

**EDUCATION**

Director of Education—H. F. Kynaston Snell, M.B.E. £1,150.

Principal, Government Secondary School—E. G. Shrubbs. Scale A to maximum starting on £600.

Education Officers (Colony)—J. B. W. Robertson, M. A. Ghanem. Scale A to maximum.

Education Officer (Prot.)—J. E. Brady. Scale A to maximum.

Principal, Government Girls School—Miss C. M. Walker. Scale A to maximum £750.

European Master—S. J. Saddleton. Scale A to maximum £870.

Technical Instructor—A. J. Rowan. Scale B to maximum £750.

**FISHERIES**

Fisheries Officer (Colony and Prot.)—W. A. King Webster, on contract.

**INCOME TAX**

Commissioner of Income Tax—R. P. Errington (See Secretariat).

Income Tax Officer—J. N. Mirza. Scale B to maximum.

**JUDICIAL**

Judge of the Supreme Court—G. W. B. Rudd. £1,350.

Chief Magistrate and Judge of the Small Causes Court—E. W. Nunn. Scale A to maximum, starting on £660.

Divisional Magistrate—Muhammad Husein Mansoor. Rs.800 p.m. on contract.

Special Magistrate—A. E. Kazi. Rs.600 p.m. on contract.

**LEGAL**

Attorney General—E. D. W. Crawshaw. £1,200.

Crown Counsel—K. Bechgaard. Scale A to maximum, starting on £660.

**MEDICAL**

Director of Medical Services—E. Cochrane. £1,200.

Medical Superintendent—Lieut.-Col. W. J. L. Neal, I.M.S. (retd.) (temporary). Scale A to maximum.

Medical Officers—W. F. Cooper (temporary). Scale A to maximum, plus £300 for Port Health work; A. L. Fawdry; M. S. Sindhu. Scale A to maximum.

Medical Officer of Health—N. M. Hodiwalla. Scale A to maximum.

Senior Assistant Medical Officers—Junior Service. Special Scale C.

Assistant Medical Officers—Junior Service. Special Scale B.

Matron—Miss A. B. Howe. Special, £700.

Nursing Sisters—Misses M. O. O'Connor, F. M. Gray, M. G. Aylwin, G. Christian, G. Asquith, D. M. Rees, J. G. Pitt, M. L. F. Mountain, P. G. F. Miles, M. P. Collins, R. Clapton. Scale N to maximum.

**POLICE**

Commissioner of Police—Lieut.-Col. N. G. Maclean. £1,100.

Deputy Commissioner of Police—H. S. Swain. £1,000.

Superintendent—B. A. H. Cartwright. Scale B to maximum £810.

Assistant Superintendents—W. H. Bruce, H. Conway, D. J. Sale, Khan Saheb Muhammad Khan Rangbaz Khan, A. F. Salole. Scale B with maximum £810.

**POSTS**

Postmaster-General—J. Robson, O.B.E. £1,050.

**PRISON**

Superintendent of Prison—Dr. N. M. Hodiwalla, O.B.E. (See Medical).
PUBLIC WORKS

Director of Public Works (also Commissioner of Lands)—Vacant. £1,150.

Chief Electrical Engineer—G. Lowes. Scale A to maximum.

Architect—G. B. H. Bidwell. Scale A to maximum.

Executive Engineers—Major F. M. Berryman, M.B.E., N. S. Chandel, M. M. Parmar. Scale A to maximum.

Engineer—J. P. Balsara. Scale A to maximum.

Surveyor—R. E. O. N. Munde. Scale B to maximum.

Chief Assistant Electrical Engineer—L. Brady. Scale C, starting on £630.

Assistant Electrical Engineer—W. Grady. Scale C to maximum £630.

TREASURY

Chief Accountant—J. A. M. Loustau Lalanne. Scale B to maximum.

Senior Accountant—W. H. Rees. Scale B with maximum £750.

ADEN PROTECTORATE

British Agent, Western Aden Protectorate—Major B. W. Seager, C.M.G., O.B.E. £1,300, plus £100 entertainment allowance.

British Agent, Eastern Aden Protectorate and Resident Adviser to the Hadhramaut States—Colonel J. E. H. Boustead, D.S.O., O.B.E., M.C. £1,300, plus £200 entertainment allowance.

Deputy British Agents—J. W. T. Allen (W.A.P.), P. D. Fletcher, M.B.E. (E.A.P.). Scale £840 × 40–1,000

Political Officers—E. S. Kennedy, L. J. Hobson, C. H. Inge (seconded to Secretariat), A. J. McIntosh, K. D. Bell, A. F. Watts, E. S. Johnson, A. M. Clark Hutchinson (seconded to Secretariat), N. St. Groom, J. Watson. Scale A to maximum.

Military Assistant to the Resident Adviser, Mukalla—Major I. E. Snell. Scale B with maximum of £750.

Finance Officer, W.A.P.—W. H. Rigby Jones. Scale B, with maximum £750.

Administrative Assistant (Finance), Eastern Aden Protectorate—S. B. Daniel, M.B.E. Scale B, with maximum £750.

GOVERNMENT GUARDS

Commandant—R. F. Tring. £1,000.

Second-in-Command—T. James. Scale B to maximum.

Pay and Quarter-Master—P. O. Purchase. Scale B, with maximum of £810.

Depot Officer—A. R. Denny. Scale B, with maximum of £810.

HODEIDAH (YEMEN)

Assistant Frontier Officer—Ahmed Hasan Mudhaffer. Junior Service. Special Scale (A + B + C) + Hodeidah Allowance.

