**THE GOLD COAST**

**SITUATION AND AREA**

The Gold Coast lies on the Gulf of Guinea. Extending from 3° 15' W. longitude to 1° 12' E. longitude and from 4° 45' N. latitude to 11° 10' N. latitude, it is composed of three territorial divisions—the Colony to the South, the Northern Territories and, between the two, Ashanti. Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship is also administered as part of the Gold Coast.

On the West, the Gold Coast marches with the French Colonies of the Ivory Coast and Haute Volta; on the East, with Togoland under United Kingdom trusteeship and on the North, with the French Colony of the Haute Volta. To the South its shores are washed by the Atlantic ocean.

The areas of its various divisions are:

| Division                          | sq. miles |
|-----------------------------------|-----------|
| Gold Coast Colony                 | 23,490    |
| Ashanti                           | 24,560    |
| Northern Territories              | 30,600    |
| (Togoland under United Kingdom    |           |
| Trusteeship)                      | 13,040    |
|                                  | 91,690    |

---

Digitized by Google
CLIMATE

The climate of the Gold Coast resembles that of other territories lying within the tropics, near the equator, in that the weather recurs in reasonably definite seasons, which are related to the annual movement of the sun northwards and southwards across the equator. The heaviest rainfall occurs about a month or so after the sun has passed overhead in a particular locality and the rain is to a large extent associated with thunderstorms. Superimposed upon this heavy rain, which is due to the heating of the ground, are periods of rainfall associated with the penetration of moist air from the south-west, which penetration is itself controlled by the movement of the sun and reaches its maximum distance north during the northern summer. This is similar to the S.W. monsoon of India, although, in the Gold Coast its effect is not so well marked as it is, for example, in Sierra Leone or in South-Eastern Nigeria.

There are four fairly distinct climatic regions viz.: the coastal belt, the extreme south-west corner, the forest belt and the North. The average climate is illustrated by the figures in the table below for Accra, Axim, Kumasi and Tamale, which are respectively typical of the four regions.

| Zone          | Station | Mean Rainfall | Max. Temperature | Relative Humidity |
|---------------|---------|---------------|------------------|-------------------|
| Coastal belt  | Accra   | 29 ins.       | 85·9°F.          | 82%               |
| South-west corner | Axim   | 82 ins.       | 83·5°F.          | 86%               |
| Forest belt   | Kumasi  | 58 ins.       | 86·2°F.          | 84%               |
| North         | Tamale  | 43 ins.       | 92·3°F.          | 61%               |

In the coastal belt the annual rainfall, by equatorial standards, is very low and three-quarters of it occurs in the period March-July, although there is a secondary maximum in October. It is also notable for the relatively cool weather during the period June-September when the average maximum temperature is only 82-5°F. and the average minimum 71-5°F. in Accra itself. This region is probably unique among coastal equatorial regions for its low rainfall and cool weather.

As one moves towards the extreme south-west corner, the amount of rainfall increases rapidly and the climatic regime is more typical of its latitude. There are two marked rainy seasons, with the principal maximum in May-June and a secondary maximum in October-November. Temperatures are much more uniform than in the coastal belt, although the weather is a little cooler during the period June to September than it is for the rest of the year. In the forest belt, there is a relatively dry spell from December to February and again in August; but over the rest of the year the rainfall is fairly uniform, although there are quite definite maxima in May-June and in September-October. Temperatures are a little higher than in the south-west corner but follow the same annual pattern, with a cool spell in July-September. It is in the northern regions that variations in temperatures become more marked: during most of the year the average maxima are over 90°F. and during February and March the average maxima are 100·3°F. and 101·1°F. respectively. There is a small drop in temperature during the period July-September which coincides with the middle of the rainy season. The highest temperature of 107°F., recorded at Tamale, is the highest recorded in the Gold Coast. Tamale also holds the record for the lowest temperature, of 60°F. that has been experienced in any of the principal meteorological stations.

Except when the Harmattan, a dry, dusty, north-east wind, blows from the Sahara, the relative humidity is generally high, usually about 80 per cent. on an average, and the high humidity is the greatest contributory cause of discomfort. The Harmattan reaches the Gold Coast in January and February and, although it is in the north that the principal effect is felt, it also penetrates to the coastal area for short periods. Relative humidity becomes very low, with the result that books and papers curl up, furniture shrinks and the skin becomes parched and dry. The daily range of temperature also increases and the season is a very trying one for Europeans living in the North, although the short spells of the Harmattan in the south are relatively pleasant, because of the cooler nights that accompany it, and provide a welcome relief from the heat of the day.

GENERAL DESCRIPTION

Gold Coast Colony

The Colony is inhabited by a large number of tribes, whose customs and forms of government are of a more or less similar character. It is divided into states (each with a paramount chief), several of which have formed confederacies, and the states and confederacies are administered by native authorities. Each province has a Provincial Council of Chiefs and there is also a Joint Provincial Council of Chiefs, with deliberative and advisory functions.

A number of different languages and dialects are spoken, the principal being Twi, Fanti, Ewe and Ga: but the use of English is widespread.

Ashanti

Ashanti is a federation of a number of groups of Akan-speaking peoples under the leadership of the Chief of one of these groups (Kumasi) who, since the beginnings of the Confederacy early in the eighteenth century, has been known as the Asantehene (the King of Ashanti). The hegemony of Kumasi was first extended by alliances with Chiefs who were blood relations of the Asantehene—such as Kokofu, Juaben and Bekwai in the east and south—and later by conquest of neighbouring groups—such as the Brong peoples to the north-west of Kumasi, whose ties of blood and language with Bontuku, the old Jaman capital in the Ivory Coast, are closer than those with Kumasi.

The Northern Territories

The headquarters of the protectorate is at Tamale in the Dagomba district, 237 miles north of Kumasi. The Krachi district and portions of the Gonja and Dagomba districts, including Yendi, the Dagomba district headquarters, are within the Northern Section of Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship.

Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship

Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship is part of the former German protectorate of Togoland. It is a narrow strip about 320 miles long lying along the Eastern frontier of the Gold Coast between 6° 20' N. and 11° 10' N.
comprises an area of 13,041 square miles. The population according to the figures of the 1948 census was:

- **Northern Section**: 210,187
- **Southern Section**: 172,530

**Total**: 382,717

This total figure comprises the members of many different tribes. In the Southern Section the people are predominantly Ewe.

Togoland is not distinguished from the Gold Coast in statistical returns other than those dealing with population. Some statistical material is however provided in the appendices to the annual report on the Territory to the United Nations Trusteeship Council.

The road system of Togoland is linked at a number of points with that of the Gold Coast and Togoland under French Trusteeship. A power ferry carries vehicles across the river Volta on the main road between Togoland and the capital Accra. Cocoa, the chief export produce of the Territory is evacuated via the Palime/Lome railway and the port of Lome in Togoland under French Trusteeship.

The Southern Section is linked with the Gold Coast telephone and telegraph service. There is a wireless telegraph service to Yendi and Kete Krachi in the Northern Section. Emergency landing grounds are maintained at Kete Krachi and Yendi.

### POPULATION

The first attempt to take a census was made in 1891 which, however, covered the Colony only. Since then a census has been taken in 1901, 1911, 1921, 1931 and 1948, the decennial sequence being interrupted between 1931 and 1948 by war conditions. Except in 1901, Ashanti and the Northern Territories have been included; and in 1921 and later censuses Togoland under U.K. trusteeship has been included. In a country such as the Gold Coast, imperfect communications and lack of education militate against complete accuracy in the compilation of a census.

Preliminary and provisional figures derived from the census taken early in 1948 are as follows:

|                | African | Non-African |
|----------------|---------|-------------|
| **Gold Coast** | 4,111,680 | 6,770       |
| **Colony**     | 2,217,416 | 5,394       |
| **Ashanti**    | 817,782  | 1,162       |
| **Northern Territories** | 1,076,482 | 214         |

The part of Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship (included in above) 382,717

In some of the chief towns:

- **Accra**: 133,192
- **Cape Coast**: 23,206
- **Ho**: 5,811
- **Koforidua**: 17,723
- **Kumasi**: 77,689*
- **Sekondi/Takoradi**: 43,743
- **Tamale**: 16,055
- **Tarkwa**: 7,707

The figures include maritime and military population.

* Including suburban area.

### RELIGION

The indigenous beliefs of the Akan peoples combine belief in a supreme God with beliefs in lesser gods, in the spirits of ancestors and in fetishes.

The first Christian missionaries landed in 1824 but it was not until 1838 that continuous mission work was established. The principal Christian missions in the Gold Coast are, in numerical order of their number of followers: the Methodist Missionary Society, the Roman Catholic Mission, the Presbyterian Church, the Roman Catholic Mission (Trans-Volta), the Ewe Presbyterian Church, the English Church Mission, and the White Fathers Mission (Roman Catholic, Northern Territories). (See Gold Coast Handbook, 1937, page 25.)

The immigrant Hausa section of the population from Northern Nigeria and many of the immigrants from the French Soudan are Mohammedans. Since 1873 Mohammedan missionaries have been active in the Gold Coast. In addition Islam has a considerable influence in the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast. A branch of the Ahmadiyya Movement was opened in 1921 with headquarters at Saltpond. There are numerous branches in the Colony, Ashanti and the Northern Territories.

### HISTORY

#### Introduction

The first recorded European contact with the Gold Coast occurred in the fifteenth century. For four centuries the history of Europeans in West Africa remained the history of the coastlines as they scarcely penetrated the interior and contented themselves with trading from their forts. It was only in the nineteenth century that penetration took place and only in the twentieth century that British rule was established in the interior and international colonial boundaries were defined.

The history of the native peoples of the Gold Coast before the fifteenth century depends on hazy traditions; while even after that time a great deal depends on oral tradition preserved in tribal tales, genealogies and folklore. It is only with European penetration in the nineteenth century that tribal history and movement can be documented in more than an occasional way.

#### Tribal Movements

Early tribal history is largely based on traditions of movement. The present inhabitants all have traditional associations with earlier homes from which they believe they came to the Gold Coast. Even after arrival in the Gold Coast, the tribes continued to move, and have done so down to modern times.

The tribes of the Gold Coast are all Negro, but they fall into different groups with different geographical origins. The principal group comprises the Akan tribes and includes the Guans, the Ashantis, the Twis and the Fantis. There is reason to believe that the Akans arrived in three waves, thus accounting for their present divisions. The first wave, consisting of the Guans and kindred peoples, came down the Volta Valley, and probably as early as 1200 were in possession of a crescent of land stretching from Bole, through Salaga, Krachi, Anum and Accra, as far west as Winneba. The second wave, the ancestors of the Fantis, probably came down the Ofin and the Pra, reaching the coast about 1300 and spreading
eastward through Cape Coast until it came in contact with the Guans. The third wave, the ancestors of the Twi peoples, came straight down between the earlier settlers, filling up Ashanti and Akim. Their spear-head, the Akwamus, probably came in contact with the coast people about 1600.

The tribes of the South East including the Ewes, the Gas, Adangmes and Krobos, appear to have come from the East and to have arrived at a rather later stage than the Akans. Tradition places their various original homes in widely scattered parts of what is now Nigeria. The early history of the Northern Territories is obscure, but it is probable that at least parts of the area and some of the tribes fell within one or other of the two great medieval kingdoms of Melle or Songhai in the Western Sudan.

The principal present inhabitants of the Gold Coast appear therefore to have arrived during the last 700 years, but there are traces of earlier inhabitants, particularly along the coast where fragments of older tribes speaking languages different from the Akan dialects are to be found. The older inhabitants were probably either overrun by the Akans or pressed southward to the sea coast. Archeology is beginning to throw a little light on early history and traces are fairly widespread of a stone age culture which may have belonged to the original inhabitants as no surviving traditions link the present tribes with it. The flint knives, axes, spear heads and hammer stones are known locally as 'nyame akuma', or the axe of god. The present tribes had a metal culture as far back as European records go. Traces are widespread of old iron smelting ovens, while the original trade with the Europeans was for gold. Gold dust was used as currency for long before the introduction of European coins at the end of the nineteenth century. Brass was also in common use.

External Contacts

(a) Classical Times

It is a matter of interesting speculation as to whether or not Greek, Carthaginian and Phoenician traders touched points on the Gold Coast during their voyages. It is certain that the Phoenicians sailed beyond the Straits of Gibraltar and down the coast of Africa, but it is not known how far these journeys extended. There are passages in the writings of Herodotus which may well refer to the Gold Coast. It is possible, too, that Hanno reached the Gold Coast, and the Greek Eudoxus certainly reached some point on the west coast, but opinions vary as to whether it was Senegambia or farther south.

(b) Modern Times

Although the French claim to have landed on the Gold Coast in the fourteenth century the first authenticated landing was made by the Portuguese in 1470 in the reign of Prince Henry the Navigator. The Portuguese made a treaty with the Chief of Elmina and a gold mine was opened at Abrobi; while shortly afterwards, in 1482, they built Elmina Castle of material brought from Portugal.

The Papal award of 1494 granted the monopoly of trade to the Portuguese but this monopoly was not respected by interlopers from several nations, including the Spanish and the English. The first recorded English voyage to the coast was that of Thomas Windham who traded on the Gold Coast and as far East as the Benin river. The Dutch were trading on the coast by 1595 and built their first lodge at Mouree in 1598. They captured Elmina in 1637 and finally drove the Portuguese from the coast by the capture of Axim in 1642. The Swedes were on the coast about 1640 and were recorded as being in possession of Ursu lodge at Christiansborg in 1645. The Danes arrived about 1642 and are mentioned in 1657 as having captured Ursu lodge from the Swedes who did not return to the coast. The Brandenburgers arrived in 1682 and remained until 1708. Apart from the English only the Danes and the Dutch remained in the nineteenth century. As a result of treaties, the Danes withdrew in 1850 and the Dutch in 1872, leaving the whole of the Gold Coast in British hands.

Merchant Adventurers

In the case of each of the European nations the first contacts consisted of visits by the ships of merchant adventurers. After a number of such visits, castles or fortified trading stations were erected. These became the trading headquarters in which goods were stored, and where merchants lived together with a garrison. Protection was needed not only against the possibility of hostility on the part of the tribes but also against pirates and the ships and men of other nations, for the national wars of Europe were also fought out on the coast and led to the capture and recapture of the different forts.

Trade with the Gold Coast originally began with gold and products of the country, such as spices and ivory. But these commodities were soon overshadowed by the slave trade. The Portuguese were slaving by 1497 and were followed by the other nations during the sixteenth century. Slaves remained the principal commodity of trade until the beginning of the nineteenth century, when the trade was legally abolished in Denmark and England and the British Navy set about its suppression.

The Companies

From 1618 to 1820 a series of English companies traded on the Gold Coast under Charter or Act of Parliament. James I granted the first Charter to Sir Robert Rich and certain London merchants who formed the "Company of Adventurers of London trading into Africa." This company was not very successful and its charter lapsed. Charles I granted a Charter to a second company in 1631 granting the exclusive right to trade from Cape Blanco to the Cape of Good Hope for a period of 31 years. This company established the first British forts at Kormantin and other points.

With the Restoration in England came a revival of English interest in West Africa and Charles II granted a new charter in January, 1662, which granted to the Company of Royal Adventurers of England Trading to Africa, the sole trading rights from the straits of Gibraltar to the Cape of Good Hope. This company was, however, ruined by the Dutch wars and gave up its Charter in 1672 at which time Cape Coast Castle was the only station it retained. The old company sold its possessions to the new Royal African Company which was established by Letters Patent under the Great Seal in the same year. It was granted a monopoly to trade between Fort Sallee and the Cape of Good Hope, but conflicts with the Dutch, who claimed a similar monopoly, continued. Cape Coast Castle was extended and improved and forts built at Accra, Komenda and Anamabo.
Opposition in England to the grant of royal monopolies led to the passing of an Act in 1698 opening the coast trade to all His Majesty's subjects. A 10 per cent. duty was granted to the company toward the cost of maintaining its forts and garrisons to protect the trade. The tax was, however, evaded and the cost of upkeep fell on the company which, as it could not in these circumstances compete with private traders, began to decline. It continued until 1750 when it was replaced by the African Company of Merchants. An Act of Parliament transferred the forts and possessions to the new company and provided for an allowance of £10,000–15,000 p.a. for maintenance of the forts. Membership of the Company was open to all British merchants.

The Company's principal local officer was the Governor at Cape Coast who had under him commandants in the other forts. In the forts were the secretaries and writers, factors and military garrisons. All the company's servants were allowed to trade except the Governor himself. The company carried on satisfactorily until the abolition of the slave trade in 1807. The removal of this part of the trade had a very serious effect on the company's position. Moreover, the growing power of the Ashantis and their periodical incursions interfered with the internal trade on which the forts depended. In 1819, therefore, it was decided that the government of the settlements should be vested in the Crown. An Act of Parliament was accordingly passed in 1821 which dissolved the company, transferred its possessions and forts to the Crown and placed them under the Governor of Sierra Leone.

Tribal History up to 1821

From the time of the arrival of the present inhabitants in the Gold Coast their history is marked by recurrent tribal warfare. Many of the coastal tribes were small, poorly organised and interested only in trade but their condition invited attack by neighbouring tribes led by warlike or ambitious leaders whose wars yielded them slaves which were the principal subject of trade. The tribal history of the present Gold Coast was dominated for over two hundred years by the power of the Ashanti Kingdom. The confederacy of Ashanti tribes had already become influential by 1640 but it was Osai Tutu, who became King in 1698, who was the real founder of Ashanti power. It was during his reign that, according to legend, Okomfo-Anotchi, the fetish priest, plucked the Ashanti Golden Stool from the sky and told the people that it contained their national soul, a symbol and a belief which have remained an inspiration to the Ashantis down to the present time. Osai Tutu also founded Kumasi and in alliance with Buaten, Chief of Juaben, defeated the Denkyiras and the Akims. It was as a result of this war about 1706 that the Ashanti Empire first came to the notice of the Europeans on the coast.

By the end of the eighteenth century Ashanti, which in Osai Tutu's reign had consisted of a small area round Kumasi, now ruled over a wide area and commanded the allegiance of Nkoranza, Banda, Jaman, Wassaw, Sefwi, Denkyira, Tufei, Aowin, Tekiman, Assin, Akim, Akwapim, Kwahu and Akwamu. The Ashantis made no attempt to administer or even occupy this empire permanently or effectively but were content to collect tribute and meet persistent refusal to pay or rebellion with invasion.

The Ashanti Wars

At the turn of the century the Ashantis were beginning to look south and attack the Fanti tribes with whom the British were trading and who, in the face of this new menace, turned to the British for help and protection. In 1806 there occurred the first of the seven Ashanti wars, the last of which was fought in 1900. The first three wars were Ashanti invasions directed against the southern tribes. They led, however, to some conflict with the British and to a great interruption of their trade.

Various attempts were made to conclude a treaty with the Ashantis but these failed and relations between the British and the Ashantis were strained when the Home Government, after dissolution of the Company by Act of Parliament, assumed control of the Settlements in 1821. The Governor of Sierra Leone, Sir Charles McCarthy, arrived in the Gold Coast in 1822. His attitude, combined with his strengthening of his ties with the Fantis, were interpreted by the Ashantis as hostility. They, therefore, prepared for war and eventually after a number of preliminary skirmishes marched south and defeated the small English force and the Fanti levies at Insamankow in 1824. The Governor was killed. Although the British retaliated by defeating the Ashantis at Dodowa in 1826 the government decided to withdraw but authorised a Committee of Merchants in London to administer the forts through its own governor in Cape Coast.

The new Governor, Captain George Maclean, inaugurated a new policy of peace towards the Ashantis by concluding a treaty with them in 1831. This policy was successful and apart from a minor excursion by the Ashantis into the colony in 1853, the peace lasted for thirty years. The fifth Ashanti War resulted from the Governor's refusal to return certain escaped slaves and a general deterioration of relations. The Ashantis harried the southern tribes and the British made preparations to protect them and attack Kumasi, but were inadequately supported from home and withdrew from the Pru after an indecisive campaign. The British lost much prestige as a result of this campaign and there was talk of their complete withdrawal. The Select Committee of the House of Commons of 1865 reluctantly advised against this course. Having decided to stay, the government had to manage its affairs better and give a more adequate guarantee of peace and protection for the southern tribes.

No treaty of peace was made after the 1863 campaign and the Ashanti, after many years of delay and preparation, invaded the coastal tribes again in 1873 and remained harrying and living on the country for several months. The home government was now convinced of the need for firm measures and sent out Sir Garnet Wolseley as civil Governor, and Commander-in-Chief. For the first time a large body of European troops was provided and after driving the Ashantis from the areas south of the Pru, Major-General Wolseley advanced to capture and destroy Kumasi. Shortly afterwards Ashanti envoys came to the Governor and a treaty of peace was made at Fomana. This provided for perpetual peace; an indemnity payable by the Ashantis; the withdrawal of Ashanti troops and claims from the south; and the freedom of trade. As a result of this war a new constitution was introduced declaring the Gold Coast to be a Colony independent of Sierra Leone.
The Ashanti problem, however, remained unsolved. After a year or two the power of the Ashantis revived, and with it the old friction was renewed. Eventually the Governor delivered an ultimatum alleging that the Treaty of Formana had been violated; traders were being interfered with; the road to the coast was not being kept open; and human sacrifice was continuing. The Governor demanded that the Ashantis should receive a British resident who would ensure that the Treaty was observed and that they should pay an indemnity. Meanwhile a British Military Force was on its way. The King failed to comply and in 1896 British troops marched to Kumasi and removed him and his followers to Cape Coast. This was a bloodless campaign but the Ashantis prepared to fight for the return of their Chief when an opportunity arose.

When Sir Frederick Hodgson, the Governor, visited Kumasi in March 1900, he demanded the surrender of the Golden Stool and this proved the spark which led to the Ashanti rebellion, or the seventh and last Ashanti war. The Governor was besieged in the fort at Kumasi and after great privation, he broke out with a column in July. The small remaining garrison was relieved on the 15th July by Colonel Willocks's force just before their supplies ran out. A campaign to pacify the country and re-establish law and trade followed. The Chiefs slowly came in and acknowledged the British rule to which they have since remained loyal.

An echo of the Gold Stool affair occurred in 1920 when it was discovered that the rich stool adornments had been stolen from its hiding place. The Ashantis came in to Kumasi in large numbers but the Government announced that it had no designs on the stool and would assist in the detection and punishment of its despoilers. The Government now understood the significance of the stool: that it was the shrine of the soul of the Ashanti people and not simply a throne. The thieves were caught and punished, and the Ashantis, being satisfied with the Government's good intentions regarding the stool, remained loyal.

About the time of the sixth Ashanti War in 1896 the advance of the French and Germans into the hinterland of the Ivory Coast, Togoland and Dahomey, together with the activities of slavers, led the British to make treaties of trade and protection with several tribes North of Ashanti in what has since become the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast. Agreements with the French and Germans of 1898 and 1899 as a result of boundary commissions led to the delimitation of the present international boundaries of the Gold Coast.

**Constitutional History of the Nineteenth Century**

As has been seen, the first British Government, as opposed to a company administration, was set up in 1821. It was at this time that jurisdiction was beginning to be exercised by British magistrates beyond the immediate vicinity of the forts, an area traditionally marked by the range of the fort guns. The protection of the neighbouring tribes became more clearly accepted, and a more comprehensive obligation assumed, which soon involved the government in the fourth Ashanti War. After this war the home government was glad enough to transfer the forts and administration back to the traders in the shape of a Committee of Merchants in London. In 1830 they appointed as their own governor Captain George Maclean who had already soldered on the Gold Coast.

Maclean continued the policy of extending British protection and jurisdiction beyond the forts with the ready co-operation of the neighbouring tribes. His courts were very popular as their decisions were given without fear or favour and were enforced by government officers and police. Moreover tribal wars, robbery and unrest were put down and peaceful conditions for trade and prosperity created. This peace lasted throughout and beyond his time, greatly benefiting all concerned by the security it gave to life and property.

In spite of the popularity of Maclean and the benefits of his policy he was bitterly criticised by well-meaning but ill-informed people in England who even accused him of being involved in slaving. Dr. Madden was sent out to report in 1839 and a Select Committee reported on the situation in 1843. Maclean was vindicated, though the anomaly of the position regarding his jurisdiction outside the Queen's Dominions was admitted. This legal difficulty was overcome by the passage of the British Settlements Act, 1843, and the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1843. It was decided to resume government control still under Sierra Leone. Lieutenant-Governor Hill was appointed to succeed Maclean, who now became Judicial Assessor to the native chiefs and assisted them in building up their courts and law outside the forts until his death in 1847.

The new government's first act was to secure the agreement of the chiefs concerned to the exercise of the extra-territorial jurisdiction. This was done by securing their adherence to the Bond of 1844 under which the chiefs (1) acknowledged the Queen's power and jurisdiction (2) agreed to abolish human sacrifice and other barbarous customs and (3) agreed that murders and other crimes should be dealt with before the Queen's judicial officers and the chiefs.

In 1850 the Gold Coast was separated from Sierra Leone and made a separate Colony with a Legislative Council. The Supreme Court was established by Ordinance in 1852. It is clear at this time that the forts and settlements were regarded as a Colony distinct from their dependencies which were regarded as protected territories.

This arrangement continued until, after the fifth Ashanti War, a Select Committee considered the position of the West African Settlements and complained that the protectorate laid heavy burdens on the government with no advantage in return. It was recommended that the Chiefs should not be encouraged to lean on British protection longer than necessary. As a result the Gold Coast was again placed under Sierra Leone in 1866. This restricted policy lasted until after the sixth Ashanti War of 1873-74, when it became clear that the country needed regular and definite government as well as protection. The departure of the Danes in 1850 and the Dutch in 1872 made it easier for the British governments to raise revenue and administer the territory more effectively.

In order that the government might be placed on a solid legal foundation the Charter of 1866 was replaced by a new Charter of 1874 erecting the Gold Coast and Lagos into a new Colony. In the Gold Coast the Colony comprised only the forts and settlements. The rest of the territory was declared a Protectorate and became the subject of an Order in Council of 1874 under the
Foreign Jurisdiction Act. These instruments provided for the Legislative Council to legislate for the whole area though its actual limits were not defined. In 1886 Lagos was separated from the Gold Coast and made into a colony on its own. In 1895 the term Protectorate was dropped and that of Colony used to describe all territory under the Queen's jurisdiction. This de facto position was regularised in 1901 to clear up further difficulties arising from the addition of Ashanti and the Northern Territories by an Order in Council annexing as a colony all territories in the Gold Coast south of Ashanti. The present Colony is therefore a colony by settlement. At the same time Ashanti was annexed as a Colony by conquest while the Northern Territories became a Protectorate by an Order in Council under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act of 1890. The boundaries were set out in the various Orders in Council of 1901 though further amended in 1906.

In 1925 a new constitution was promulgated under which the old Council, composed of ex officio and a few nominated members, was replaced by a partly elected Council though still with an official majority. The Council was concerned only with the Colony, as the Governor legislated without a council for Ashanti and the Northern Territories. Provision was made for direct election by secret ballot for the Municipal areas of Accra, Cape Coast and Sekondi. A Provincial Council was set up in each of the three Provinces composed of chiefs who elected six members to the Legislative Council as representatives of the rural areas. This Council remained until 1946 when new and important changes were made granting an unofficial majority in the Legislative Council and including in it representatives from Ashanti and making provision for the inclusion of Northern Territory representatives when they have reached a suitable stage of development.

Economic and Social Developments

Since the first European settlement on the coast, trade with the interior had continued with occasional intermission owing to local wars. Trade in slaves began at the end of the fifteenth century and continued for two centuries until the abolition of the trade by Denmark and Great Britain in the early nineteenth century. The slave trade had been the mainstay of the African Company and when the trade was abolished the Company quickly found itself in difficulties. Coast trade generally declined because of the disappearance of its principal commodity and also because of the early Ashanti wars. Trade was not revived until the period of McLean's administration when his policy produced the conditions of peace and security which enabled the new trade in palm oil to be built up. Vegetable oils continued to be the principal commodity of West African trade throughout the nineteenth century when they were displaced in importance in the Gold Coast by the cocoa trade which began in the last decade of the century and rapidly expanded until the Gold Coast became the world's largest producer.

Although gold had been such an important commodity in the European trade and had figured largely in native culture for some centuries and although gold dust was one of the most important items of currency before the introduction of the West African Currency Board coinage in 1897, it was mined for the most part in shallow native workings until the advent of the European prospectors in the gold boom of the 1880s. It was during this period that deep gold mining began at Tarkwa and rapidly spread to other areas in the western Province and Ashanti. Since that time gold has continued to grow in importance as a mineral product, though in recent times the mineral income of the Gold Coast has been increased by the discovery and working of diamonds, manganese and bauxite.

Two important factors in the social history of the people during the nineteenth century were the disturbances caused to social life by the Ashanti wars which on several occasions resulted in the devastation of considerably populated areas including the destruction of villages and the massacring of the inhabitants. The second important factor is the abolition first of the slave trade and eventually of the institution of slavery. Although the trade was abolished in British territory in 1807 and the institution abolished by law in 1833, domestic slavery lingered on in the Gold Coast until comparatively modern times. In 1874 the Government passed two Ordinances abolishing all forms of slavery in the Gold Coast and although traces lingered on for some years the civilising influences at work speeded its total disappearance. The Gold Coast has made very remarkable progress in the last century. This has been due to the guarantee of security, the development of rich mineral and agricultural resources and trade, and to the steady advance of education. One or two preliminary efforts at education were begun in the eighteenth century but it was not until the early nineteenth century that first the Wesleyan and later the Basel Missionaries became established. These were later followed by the Anglican and Roman Catholic Missionaries and several other societies. In the early years, education was entirely in the hands of the Missions though Government in the latter part of the century began to make a considerable financial contribution to their work. In addition, Government schools were built and the present policy of the widest possible expansion of education begun.

Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship

German interest in Togoland was formally recognised by agreements made with the French on 24th December, 1885, and with the British on the 14th and 28th July, 1886, when the provisional frontiers of Togoland were fixed. Immediately on the outbreak of war between Great Britain and Germany, Togoland was invaded by Gold Coast forces. Joint Anglo-French operations against the Germans were successful and brought about the surrender of the Territory on the 26th August, 1914. The administration of the Territory was shared between the British and the French and the present boundary between the British and the French spheres was established as the result of an agreement signed by Lord Milner and M. Simon on 10th July, 1919.

In October, 1921, the Council of the League of Nations approved in principle the arrangement made between the British and French Governments and the application to the territories of the mandate system; on 20th July, 1922, the Council confirmed the mandates and defined their terms.* Togoland under British Mandate was administered under the mandate system by the Government of the Gold Coast on behalf of H.M. Government until December, 1946; when the General Assembly of the United Nations approved the draft Trusteeship Agreement† for the British sphere of Togoland.

*For text of British mandate, see Cmd. 1794.
†Published as Cmd. 7083.
CONSTITUTION

The constitutional instruments providing for the government of the Gold Coast are the Gold Coast Ordinances Order-in-Council dated 19th February, 1946; the Gold Coast Colony and Ashanti (Legislative Council) Order-in-Council dated 19th February, 1946; and the Letters Patent and Royal Instructions dated 7th March, 1946. The Executive Council consists of the Colonial Secretary, the Chief Commissioners of the Colony, Ashanti, and the Northern Territories, the Attorney-General, the Financial Secretary, and the Director of Medical Services (ex-officio members) and such other persons (appointed members) as may be appointed in terms of the Royal Instructions. The Legislative Council consists of a President (at present Mr. E. C. Quist, an Elected Member), six ex-officio members, 18 elected members (nine to be elected by the Joint Provincial Council of Chiefs, Colony, four to be elected by the Ashanti Confederacy Council, and five by the electorates of Accra (2), Cape Coast, Sekondi, and Kumasi), and six nominated members. The ex-officio members are the Colonial Secretary, Chief Commissioner of the Colony, Chief Commissioner of Ashanti, Chief Commissioner of the Northern Territories, the Attorney-General and the Financial Secretary.

A Committee, under the chairmanship of Mr. Justice J. H. Coussey, was appointed at the end of 1948 to make recommendations regarding the revision of the Constitution. At the time of writing the publication of the Committee's report was awaited.

ADMINISTRATION

Gold Coast Colony

The Colony is administered under the Governor by a Chief Commissioner, with headquarters at Cape Coast. There are eleven Districts in charge of Senior District Commissioners and District Commissioners:

- Accra (Accra); Akwapim-New Juaben (Koforidua); Volta River (Akuse); Ho (Ho, Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship), which includes the Kpandu sub-district; Keta, which is administered as if it were a sub-district from Ho; Ada; Cape Coast (Cape Coast), which includes the Winneba and Dunkwa sub-districts; Birim (Kibi), which includes the Mpraeso and Oda sub-districts; Ahanta-Nzima (Sekondi), which includes the Axim sub-districts; Wasaw-Aowin (Tarkwa), which includes the Enchi sub-district; Sefwi (Wiawso), which includes the Bibiani sub-district.

Ashanti

Ashanti is administered under the Governor by a Chief Commissioner, with an Assistant Chief Commissioner as relieving officer, and is divided into the following districts, each under a District Commissioner with limited powers of jurisdiction:

- Bekwai
- Kumasi
- Mampong
- Wenchi/Sunyani

The Northern Territories

The Northern Territories are administered under the Governor by a Chief Commissioner with an Assistant Chief Commissioner as relieving officer. They are divided into Mamprusi, Wa, Krachi, Dagomba and Gonja districts, with headquarters at Gambaga (shortly to be moved to Bolgatanga), Wa, Krachi, Yendi and Salaga respectively.

Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship

The British sphere is administered under the provisions of the Togoland under British Mandate Order-in-Council, 1923, which was issued on 11th October, 1923. It is divided for administrative purposes into the Northern Section and the Southern Section.

The Northern Section is administered as if it formed part of the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast, and the Southern Section as if it formed part of the Eastern Province of the Gold Coast Colony. The Supreme Court of the Gold Coast exercises jurisdiction in both sections, except as regards land cases in the Northern Section which are tried by the Court of the Chief Commissioner of the Northern Territories.

The law for the time being in force in the Northern Territories is the law in force in the Northern Section. While in the Southern Section special legislation deals with Native Administration, Native Courts and the alienation of land, the law for the time being in force in the Gold Coast Colony is, for the rest, the law in force in the Southern Section.

The Southern Section together with the Keta District of the Gold Coast Colony is administered as a single area under a Senior District Commissioner at Ho. The Northern Section comprises the whole of the Krachi District and parts of the Gonja (Headquarters Salaga), Dagomba (Headquarters Yendi), and Mamprusi (Headquarters Gambaga) Districts.

Municipal Government

The towns of Accra, Cape Coast, Kumasi, and Sekondi-Takoradi have Town Councils with an unofficial majority.

Law and Justice

The Law of the Colony is the Common Law, the doctrines of equity, and the statutes of general application in force in England on 24th July, 1874, modified by a large number of local Ordinances passed since that date. The criminal law was codified in 1892, and the civil and criminal procedure are regulated by the Courts Ordinance and the Criminal Procedure Code, both enacted in 1935.

Justice is administered by the Supreme Court which is presided over by the Chief Justice and eight Puisne Judges. Divisional Courts of the Supreme Court are held in different parts of the colony and within certain specified areas the Lands Division of the Court exercises a limited original and appellate jurisdiction in land cases. There are also a large number of inferior courts with limited criminal and civil jurisdiction, some of which are presided over by District Magistrates and District Commissioners. The Supreme Court has an original civil and criminal jurisdiction, and also decides appeals from the inferior courts. Appeals from the Divisional Courts and Land Courts lie to the West African Court of Appeal.

Native customary law is administered in all the courts, in so far as it is not incompatible, either directly or by necessary implication, with any ordinance for the time being in force, and not repugnant to natural justice, equity and good conscience.

Native courts are established throughout the Colony, with criminal and civil jurisdiction in cases where the parties are subject thereto.
There are five Central Prisons and 19 Local and Female Prisons. A Central Prison for Females has been established at Sekondi and all women prisoners serving over one month are transferred to Sekondi Central Prison for Females. The Local Prisons at Lawra and Salaga have been closed. Another Prison Camp for first offenders has been opened and there are now two of these establishments. A Borstal Institution is situated six miles from Accra. A Training Depot for warders has been established in the same vicinity.

A specially constructed prison for prisoners suffering from tuberculosis and leprosy has been established at Ankaful near Cape Coast. There is an earning scheme in operation for convicted prisoners. Additional teachers and agents for discharged prisoners have been provided.

SOCIAL SERVICES

Education

The system of education is, for the most part, under the management of Educational Units, that is, denominational bodies, native authorities, and, in a few cases, private organisations. To these Units the Central Government makes annually, from its funds, substantial contributions towards the cost of conducting efficiently the "assisted" primary and secondary schools, and the teacher-training colleges. In the Colony and Ashanti there are "designated schools," which do not receive grants-in-aid from the Central Government and which have been selected for improvement on the recommendation of District Education Committees. The cost of these schools is borne by the Native Authorities, which are themselves grant-aided by the Central Government.

In the application of policy the Director of Education is advised by the Central Advisory Committee on Education which exercises purely advisory functions. This Committee is closely linked with the District Education Committees and on it the principal agencies concerned in education are represented. From their special knowledge of local conditions and local needs the District Education Committees can be relied upon for advice as to the best possible action based on considerations of policy.

All teachers are registered and there is legislation for the registration of schools. There are two Education Ordinances which provide for the separate control of education in the Colony and Ashanti and in the Northern Territories. These enactments contain a specific provision regarding the inspection of schools, and confer upon the Director of Education or his representative right of entry for this purpose. In the latter administration, educational development is chiefly through native authorities, the Central Government training teachers and subsidising schools. In all three administrations grants from funds contributed by native authorities are proportioned to local needs.

Primary Education.—There are 21 Government Primary schools and 616 Government-assisted schools. The enrolment of Government and Assisted schools in 1948 was 96,539, including 28,139 girls, while that of the 852 designated schools was 91,175, including 26,763 girls. As far as can be ascertained, the enrolment, during the same period of the non-designated non-assisted schools was 85,182 boys and 13,852 girls.

Secondary Education.—There are the following Government-assisted secondary schools for boys: the Presbyterian Church of the Gold Coast School at Odumase—Krobo; Mfantsipim (Methodist Church), Adisadel College (English Church Mission) and St. Augustine's College (Roman Catholic Mission), all at Cape Coast; Accra Academy, Accra, which was placed on the Assisted List in 1948; Prempeh College, Kumasi, which was opened in January, 1949, as a joint Methodist-Presbyterian institution. There are at Cape Coast two secondary schools for girls: Wesley Girls' Secondary School and the Holy Child College (Roman Catholic Mission). Other girls' secondary schools are conducted by the Order of the Holy Paraclete (English Church Mission) at Mampong, Ashanti (St. Monica's College) and by the Scottish Mission at Aburi. Achimota School (see below) is co-educational. The Ewe Presbyterian Church proposes to open in 1950 a secondary school for boys at Ho in the Southern part of Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship. A secondary class will be instituted in 1950 at Tamale in the Northern Territories as part of the large Government educational establishment there. Provision for the further extension of facilities for secondary school education is included in the current ten-year development plan. Pupils of the secondary schools are presented annually for the School Certificate Examination of the University of Cambridge Local Examinations Syndicate. In December, 1948, 272 candidates from Government-assisted secondary institutions, including Achimota School, passed the examination.

Training of Teachers.—The principal teacher-training courses are (i) a four-year post-primary (or, alternatively, a two-year post-secondary) course for teachers who will be employed in the primary schools, including the senior primary schools; (ii) a two-year post-primary course for teachers for infant-junior schools only, which provide a six-year primary course from which pupils may proceed to the four-year senior primary course; (iii) special courses in arts and crafts, and in domestic science. A special music course has already been started at Achimota College and it is proposed to increase further the number and variety of special courses.

Men teachers undergo the four-year post-primary or the two-year post-secondary course at Achimota Training College; Wesley College, Kumasi; the Presbyterian Training College, Akropong; St. Augustine's Roman Catholic College, Cape Coast; and the Government Training College, Tamale. Similar courses for women are provided at Achimota Training College; the Holy Child College (Roman Catholic Mission), Cape Coast; Wesley College, Kumasi; the Scottish Mission Training College, Aburi; St. Monica's College, Mampong, Ashanti; and the Basel Mission Training College, Agogo, Ashanti.

The Certificate B two-year post-primary course is now provided at the following institutions:

The Scottish Mission College for women at Odumase-Krobo; The Ewe Presbyterian Church College for men at Amedzofe in the southern part of Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship; The Seventh-Day Adventist Mission College for men at Bekwai, Ashanti; The Presbyterian Church of the Gold Coast College for men (St. Andrew's College) now in temporary quarters at Akropong, Akwapim (to be transferred to Mampong, Ashanti); The Roman Catholic
Mission (S.V.D.) College for men, now in temporary quarters at Odumase, Krobo (to be transferred to new buildings at Somanya); The Roman Catholic Mission College for men, now in temporary quarters at Amisanu (to be transferred to new buildings at Apowa near Sekondi); The Roman Catholic Mission (Trans-Volta) College for men at Hohoe in the southern part of Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship; the Roman Catholic Mission (Ashanti) College for men at Bechem; the Government Training College, Tamale; the Methodist Training College, Komenda; the Government Training College, Winneba.

As a further part of the planned development of education, it is proposed to establish several more Certificate B Colleges. All teacher-training colleges conducted by the Educational Units are grant-aided by the Central Government.

In accordance with the Central Government's scheme for the re-settlement of ex-servicemen in civilian employment 200 suitable candidates have been selected for training as teachers in teacher-training colleges with a view to their subsequent employment in schools. The ex-servicemen enjoy considerable benefits under the scheme both during their preliminary two-year teaching practice in schools and during the period of their college training.

Trade and Technical Education.—The Government Technical School, Takoradi, provides four-year courses of secondary vocational training in building (including woodwork) and mechanical engineering. In addition, handicraft teachers for senior primary schools and teacher-training colleges are trained at the school. Trade-training centres, which are post-primary boarding establishments giving training in carpentry, joinery, masonry, general building and metalwork have been opened at Asuansi (1948) and Mampong, Ashanti (1949). It is proposed to open a centre at Tamale in the near future. Plans for the early development of trade and technical education include three Technical Institutes, which will provide part-time and full-time classes in trades, technology, commercial and general subjects, and housecraft.

Schools for the training of subordinate technical staff are conducted by the medical, agricultural, animal health, survey, posts and telegraphs, and railway departments.

Achimota.—The Prince of Wales College and School at Achimota near Accra was opened in January, 1927, as a co-educational boarding institution. It consisted of a Kindergarten, a primary school (these were subsequently discontinued), a secondary school, a teacher-training college, and a post-secondary department in which students were prepared for the University of London Intermediate Arts and Science Examinations and B.Sc. Engineering Examinations. Achimota was an independent institution which received a large annual subsidy from the Central Government and which, in accordance with its constitution, was administered by its own council consisting partly of elected and partly of nominated members. Similar arrangements apply to its successor institutions, which came into existence by legislation in July, 1948, and are Achimota School, Achimota Teacher-Training College, and the University College of the Gold Coast.

The University College of the Gold Coast.—The University College of the Gold Coast was brought into being by legislation in July, 1948, and admitted ninety students in October, 1948.

The Proposed Regional College.—Government proposes to establish in the near future a regional college, which will form an important part of the structure of education in the Gold Coast. It will train teachers of technical subjects, and provide courses in engineering, accountancy, agriculture and other professions at varying post-secondary levels.

Private Study for University Examinations.—Substantial numbers of candidates prepare themselves by private study for a wide variety of university examinations which are regularly conducted by the Education Department on behalf of the University of London and other United Kingdom authorities.

Scholarships.—The Central Government makes large provision for scholarships for secondary education and for teacher-training courses. There are, in addition, numerous scholarships schemes for university and comparable studies at the University College of the Gold Coast and in the United Kingdom. The schemes provide for degree courses and for qualifications in medicine, dentistry, education, agriculture, technology, linguistics, etc. There are 470 Gold Coast students in the United Kingdom, of whom 206 are scholarship holders.

Information Services

The function of the Public Relations Department is to explain Government policy to the people in such a way as to enlist their maximum understanding and co-operation. The Department is organised in six sections: Administrative, Publications, Programmes, Cinema, Films and Photographic.

The Programme Section produces two news bulletins daily in English and the principal vernaculars. Other productions are talks, both educational and topical, women's programmes, children's programmes, book reviews and feature and musical programmes. Broadcast programmes are transmitted by the Government's Broadcasting Department from the Gold Coast Station at Accra and relayed by satellite stations to loudspeakers in the homes of rediffusion subscribers and to loudspeakers in market places and other points of assembly throughout the country.

The Publications Section assists the local press and keeps both it and the people supplied with local and foreign news. This section is responsible for the publication of the "Gold Coast Bulletin" and despatches 27,000 copies of it, each week, to every part of the Colony. It also maintains a growing Reference Section with a library of books, newspapers, periodicals and press-clippings. The Distribution side of this Section distributes books, literature, pictures, posters, printing blocks and photographs to all parts of the Colony.

The Cinema Section possesses a variety of films and operates seven travelling cinema vans which are used, in collaboration with Native Authorities, to give shows throughout the Colony. A small mobile cinema unit gives frequent shows in the Accra area, and two similar units have recently been acquired for use in Kumasi and Cape Coast. The Section also supervises the issue to local commercial cinemas of newsreels and interest films supplied by the Central Office of Information.

The Films Section has made a number of short films of local interest, both in colour and in black and white. It is at present undergoing reorganisation, with a view to extending the scope of its activities.
The Department has been reorganised in order that its activities may be spread more widely over the country and that it may be in closer contact with local opinion. To this end Regional Public Relations Offices have been set up in the Colony, Ashanti and the Northern Territories. Additional cinema vans are on order for an extension of the cinema circuits in rural areas.

Medical Facilities

Medical Officers are normally stationed at all the principal centres throughout the Gold Coast. Since 1940 staff shortage has considerably reduced the number of stations directly under medical supervision, though in 1949 the shortage has been less acute than in 1948. All stations are regularly visited and inspected. Most Medical Officers travel in their districts and give treatment at Village Dispensaries. The total number of Dispensaries has increased to 46.

There are 33 Government hospitals in the Gold Coast, providing 1,472 beds and 236 cots.

In 1948 a total of 60,796 in-patients were treated in hospitals in the Gold Coast. Out-patients numbered 735,583. These figures include cases treated in Mines hospitals.

The largest hospitals in the Gold Coast are the Gold Coast Hospital at Accra and the General Hospital at Kumasi. In 1948 the Gold Coast Hospital treated 6,051 in-patients and 46,802 out-patients; 543 major operations were performed.

The Maternity Hospital, Accra, which was extended in 1947, has an accommodation for 75 beds and 57 cots. During 1948, 1,025 deliveries were conducted at the Maternity Hospital, Accra. This hospital is the principal training centre for Midwives in the Gold Coast. Thirty-seven Pupil Midwives and 31 Second Division Nurses who are being trained as Midwives, are accommodated in the adjoining hostel. Nine State-registered Nurses who had completed their training at the Nurses Training College are at present pursuing a Midwifery Course at the Midwives Hostel. The demand for admission to the Midwives School is heavy and competition is very keen. To meet this demand a new Midwifery Training School has been opened at Kumasi, and 11 Pupil Midwives are at present in training at the School.

The hospital at Sekondi was moved to its new buildings at Effia Nkwanta about three miles from Takoradi in August, 1948. This hospital has accommodation for 131 beds and 19 cots, and is under the charge of a Specialist in Surgery. This officer is available for consultation by the general public.

The Nurses Training College and Hostel has its new quarters in Accra, the construction of which is nearing completion. Its close proximity to the Gold Coast Hospital affords the pupils an opportunity of gaining practical experience in nursing which the hospital offers. The course of training includes lectures in Medicine and Surgery by Physicians and Surgeons attached to the Gold Coast Hospital, and in Dietetics by the Nutrition Officer. Demonstrations are also arranged for the senior students in the Pathological Research Laboratory. At present there are 123 pupils in training at the College and Hostel. When completed it will provide accommodation for 170 girls. The Senior Staff comprises two Sister Tutors, two English Mistresses, two Science Mistresses and one Home Sister. The services of the latter are shared between the College and the Midwives Hostel of the Maternity Hospital. The object of the College is to turn out African female nurses capable of filling higher nursing appointments. Four Student Nurses passed their final State Examination in General Nursing at the College in 1948. This year five other students have qualified. These students are at present undergoing a further course of training in Midwifery at the Maternity Hospital. As far as can be judged, the training scheme outlined for the College promises to be a success.

The Medical Research Institute is situated near the Gold Coast Hospital, Accra. This Institute has to handle a very large volume of work, but staff shortage has necessitated its activities being confined mostly to routine examination.

The Limb Fitting Centre continues to manufacture and carry out repair work to Prothesis. It is expected that the work of the Centre will be taken over by the Limb Fitting Centre at Lagos, in due course.

An interesting feature of departmental activities is the proposed construction of Model Health Centres at Effiduasi in Ashanti, and Bimbilla and Kpandu in Togoland under the United Kingdom Trusteeship. Sites have been selected and building plans approved. These Model Health Centres are associated with the idea of Community Centres. The Medical Staff would consist of a trained Dresser, a Midwife and a Sanitary Inspector, and the Centre would be visited by the area Medical Officer. These Centres are intended as examples for future development by Native Authorities in their areas. At present they are staffed by Government, pending the availability of trained staff by the Native Authorities. Plans are proceeding for the construction of quarters to house the trainees.

A central institution for the training of dressers for Native Administrations in the Gold Coast is functioning at Kintampo. Thirty trainees are at present undergoing 18 months' course of training. These are in receipt of subsistence allowance from the Native Authorities for whom they are being trained. After qualification, these dressers will be required to staff the Native Administration Dressing Stations which have been opened in approved rural areas. At present these are staffed by nurses provided by the Medical Department, but in order to encourage Native Authorities to develop their own medical services, dressers will be trained at the expense of the Native Authorities.

Another interesting experiment is the provision of Mobile Dispensaries, staffed by a nurse and dispenser or by a nurse only. These travelling Dispensaries are provided with stock medicines. One operates on the road between Tamale-Yendi-Bimbilla; the second in the Sunyani-Goaso area, while the third operates in the Winneba district.

Health

Shortage of staff makes it possible to post full-time Medical Officers of Health only to Accra, Kumasi, Takoradi and Tamale. In other areas Medical Officers undertake all health duties but only to the extent that their ordinary duties allow. European Sanitary Superintendents are posted to the larger towns.

Public Health activities are extended into the rural areas as far as staff will permit, control being chiefly exercised in the larger villages and smaller towns on the more important trade routes. Particular attention is paid to village layouts and the type of house erected on them; to the protection
of water supplies and the disposal of refuse and other essential factors. Particular success in rural sanitation has followed the activities of the Native Administration in the Northern Territories. Little progress, however, can be reported in Ashanti and the Colony generally.

In 1948 in the registration areas of the Gold Coast with a population of 498,466, out of a total population for the whole Gold Coast of 4,473,942, the birth rate was 29·4 and the death rate 21·4 per 1,000 persons living. The infantile mortality rate was 121, and the maternal mortality rate was 20·3 per 1,000 total births.

As far as can be judged from the available figures, the health of the population in the registration areas showed no general decline in the last five years.

Infant and Ante-natal Welfare Centres are situated in Accra and Kumasi. The volume of work carried out by these Centres is increasing steadily.

The increasing awareness of the benefits to be derived by mothers from maternity and child-welfare work is shown by Native Administrations in opening of Centres in rural areas. These Centres are operated by private midwives. At Koforidua, Cape Coast and Sekondi, the Welfare Centres are operated by the Gold Coast Branch of the British Red Cross Society. In 1948 there were 189,156 child attendances and 87,729 attendances of expectant mothers at Welfare Centres operated by Government, Red Cross Society and the Missions. An expansion scheme which called for the raising of £20,000 by voluntary subscriptions was inaugurated. The money is to be spent on maternity and child-welfare Clinics work in rural areas. Five Mobile Maternity and Child Welfare Clinics have been put into service. Drugs for these Mobile Clinics are supplied by the Medical Department on repayment basis. The Society also supplied milk to necessitous mothers free of charge at Weighing Centres for children.

Labour

The Labour Department originated in 1938 with one officer stationed in Kumasi. The Headquarters were moved to Accra in 1942, and there are now Labour Officers in Accra, Takoradi, Tarkwa and Kumasi. The work of the department has recently been extended to the Northern Territories, where a Labour and Resettlement Officer is stationed at Tamale. Employment exchanges have been opened in Kumasi and Takoradi, and in addition, smaller offices in the charge of junior members of the staff are to be found widely distributed throughout the country.

The senior staff consists of a Commissioner of Labour, an Assistant Commissioner of Labour, two Senior Labour Officers, ten Labour Officers, four of whom are Africans, and an Administrative Assistant who is also an African. There is in addition an unfilled vacancy for a Factory Inspector. Three Senior Labour Inspectors and nine Labour Inspectors assist the Labour Officers in their duties. As part of its post-war activities the department is responsible for the resettlement of ex-servicemen and for this purpose the Commissioner of Labour has an additional staff of four Resettlement Officers, the Assistant Commissioner of Labour acting as the Chief Resettlement Officer.

In addition to its routine duties of inspecting places and conditions of employment, investigating complaints, assisting in workmen's compensation cases, and promoting good relations in industry and commerce, the department also seeks to foster sound and progressive development of the trade union movement, and to advise the individual unions on matters of internal economy. On the 1st April, 1949, there were 42 registered trade unions with an approximate total paid-up membership of 38,200. This compares with 28 unions and 30,460 members on the 1st April, 1948.

A new and comprehensive Labour Ordinance became law on the 1st October, 1948. It embraces the provisions of those I.L.O. conventions which have been accepted by His Majesty's Government on behalf of the Gold Coast.

Welfare

A new Department of the Government, entitled the "Department of Social Welfare and Housing", was established in April, 1946.

There are six principal aims for the development of social welfare during the next few years:

(1) To introduce modern methods for the treatment of juvenile delinquency, for the prevention of juvenile crime and for the welfare of the child in need of care or protection.

(2) To establish a probation service.

(3) To promote and encourage a youth organisation.

(4) By a system of community and social centres to conduct a campaign against ignorance, illiteracy and low standards of living, and to foster a spirit of self-help and mutual assistance.

(5) To assist and encourage the establishment of women's institutions, with hostel accommodation, in the large urban areas with the object of instilling in young women an increased appreciation of the dignity of womanhood and of a sense of community and citizenship.

(6) By short local courses of instruction for approved Youth Leaders to stimulate life in the smaller centres of population and in rural areas. The courses are directed towards the encouragement of voluntary social service activities and the use of leisure; and also to promote the development of a civic consciousness and a sense of obligation to Society.

As regards other aspects of social welfare, an experimental school has already been opened for the occupational training of blind children; and much progress has been made in after-care of convicts by a Discharged Prisoners' Aid Society working through full-time paid agents.

The duties of welfare officers are concerned not only with the execution of Government schemes but also with the co-ordination of public and voluntary enterprise.

Knowledge has been gained in recent years in the economics of housing for persons on small incomes and efforts have been and continue to be made to adopt construction methods which will reduce the cost of building and will enable local artisans to practise the new techniques in the villages.

Government housing estates have been developed in the large towns in order to counter the evils of overcrowding and to provide accommodation for persons on small incomes and the labouring classes. Rentals in these estates are subsidised by the Government.
COMMUNICATIONS

Roads

The mileage of all-weather roads, exclusive of town roads, maintained by the Public Works Department, is 2,751½ miles, made up as follows:

| District       | Tarred or Bitumen Surface Miles | Gravel Miles | Total Miles |
|----------------|---------------------------------|--------------|-------------|
| Accra          | 128                             | 131½         | 259½        |
| Nsawam         | 61½                            | 122          | 183¾        |
| Koforidua      | 77                              | 117½         | 195         |
| Keta           | 1½                             | 67           | 68½         |
| Winneba        | 75                              | 156½         | 232¼        |
| Cape Coast     | 102½                           | 100          | 203         |
| Takoradi       | 35                              | 237¼         | 272¼        |
| Dunkwa         | 248                             |              |             |
| Ashanti        | 171½                           | 305¼         | 676¼        |
| Northern Territories | 4                     | 409          | 413         |

In addition there are approximately 3,385 miles of roads maintained by the Political Administration and approximately 3,000 miles of pioneer roads maintained by Chiefs and Timber Companies.

The Black Volta rises in the hills near Soukouraba, and the White Volta rises near Quahigouga, both in the French Colony of Haute Volta. These two rivers converge some 280 miles from the sea on the Ashanti-Northern Territories border and become the River Volta which flows into the sea at Ada. This river is navigable for light draught launches as far as Akuse, and, with the exception of the Krachi rapids, can be used for canoe traffic during certain seasons of the year as far as Yeji. The Ankobra River is navigable for many months of the year by surf-boats and light draught launches for a distance of 50 miles. The Tano, connected with Half Assini by the main lagoon, is navigable for light draught launches and canoes as far as Tanoso, a distance of about 60 miles. The Sutri rapids prevent this river being further utilised.

The ferry over the River Volta at Senchi is capable of taking the largest cars and lorries, and is now worked by an endless chain driven by a petrol motor placed on the ferry boat. A similar ferry is in operation over the same river at Yeji on the Kumasi-Tamale road.

Several new bridges were constructed during 1947-48, including one over the White Volta on the Bolgatanga-Bawku road.

The Government maintains a motor transport service which handles Government cargo and officials' baggage and stores arriving by sea and air.

It provides transport for movements of personnel and Government stores, to and from the rail heads, and throughout those parts of the Colony not served by the Gold Coast Railway.

In addition to their departmental duties, the officers of the Transport Department assist in carrying out the provisions of the Motor Traffic Ordinance by acting as testing and certifying officers.

Railways

Railway communication consists of a main line from Takoradi to Kumasi, thence to Accra, a distance of 366 miles, with branches Sekondi to Takoradi Junction (3 miles), Tarkwa to Prestea (18 miles), Aboso to Cinnamon Bippo (4 miles), Huni Valley to Kade (99 miles), and Dunkwa to Awaso (46 miles). The main line and branches are 3 feet 6 inches gauge.

The Railway and Takoradi Harbour are incorporated in one administration. The gross earnings of the administration for the year 1947/48 were £2,128,009.

Shipping

The Gold Coast was for many years at a great disadvantage in that it possessed no deep-water harbour. Jetties protected by breakwaters were built at Sekondi and Accra, for the use of surf boats and lighters.

Sekondi has been replaced by a deep-water harbour a few miles to the westward at Takoradi, which was opened to shipping in 1928. The harbour is 220 acres in extent and provides moorings for eight ocean-going ships, whilst four can be berthed alongside the main wharf, which contains a large manganese-loading transporter, and also a bauxite loading plant. There is a fifth berth for local coal traffic and an additional berth and overhead conveyor plant for bauxite.

Mail and Steamship Services between the United Kingdom and the Gold Coast are maintained by Messrs. Elder Dempster Lines, Limited, the United Africa Company, Limited, and John Holt and Company, Limited.

A comprehensive scheme for future harbour development has been approved and work on the scheme is scheduled to commence during the latter half of 1949. The development will provide for lighter wharves for the loading of logs and sawn timber and two additional berths for ocean-going ships, together with improved facilities for the discharge of oil and the bunkering of vessels. Improved facilities for the storage of cargo and the marshalling of trains will also be provided.

Air

The Gold Coast is connected with the United Kingdom on the B.O.A.C. trunk route between Great Britain and West Africa. It has direct connection with the United States of America and South Africa on the Pan-American World Airways system, and is also visited by Portuguese, French and Belgian Air Lines. The West African Airways Corporation operates a coastal service to Dakar, where the British South American Airways and other international air lines may be joined.

Accra is the West African terminus of the trunk air route operated by the British Overseas Airways Corporation between the United Kingdom and West Africa. It is an International Civil Customs Airport situated 4½ miles north-east of Accra. In addition to the B.O.A.C. and West African Airways Corporation's services, it is used by the Pan-American World Airways service from New York to Johannesburg, and by the Portuguese air service between Lisbon and Laurencio Marques. French and Belgian air lines also call at Accra. There is accommodation for passengers at a hotel on the Airport.

There are three other airports, at Takoradi, Kumasi and Tamale; these are used for W.A.A.C. internal services and have customs facilities. All have tarred surfaces.

Posts and Telegraphs

Mails between the Gold Coast and other British Colonies on the west coast, and the United Kingdom, are exchanged frequently by vessels of
Elder Dempster Lines, Limited, and at irregular intervals by vessels of other lines. Mails are exchanged overland with Togoland under French Trusteeship and the French Ivory Coast. Air mails to and from all parts of the world are exchanged five times weekly by British Overseas Airways Corporation and Pan-American Airways. There is also a weekly service to the Gambia, Sierra Leone and Dakar by West African Airways Corporation and a twice weekly service by Air France to all French possessions in West Africa. The frequency of the internal airmail service is:— between Accra and Takoradi, 5 times weekly; between Accra and Kumasi, 6 times weekly; and twice weekly between Accra and Tamale.

There are 88 post offices and 289 postal agencies. Distribution of mails is effected principally by rail and motor. When this is not possible a runner service is employed.

There are 4,949 miles of telegraph line wire serving all the principal centres. There are 20,395 miles of telephone wire including overhead and underground cable circuits in use which link up 197 exchanges and call offices throughout the country, in addition to 29 multiconn telephone boxes. Passenger or cargo vessels entering Takoradi harbour can be connected to the colony telephone, telegraph and phonogram system. There are about 5,864 telephones in operation including those in Government offices, and extensions to the system are in progress.

Parcel post despatches are exchanged direct with the United Kingdom, South Africa and with other British colonies in West Africa. Parcels for other countries are forwarded through the United Kingdom. The C.O.D. service from the United Kingdom is extensive.

There are aeronautical telecommunication stations at Accra, Takoradi, Kumasi and Tamale.

Cable and Wireless, Limited, operate the cable station at Accra where submarine cables connect the colony with countries all over the world.

British imperial postal orders are issued and paid, and an inland and foreign money order system is also in operation. A telegraph money order service with the United Kingdom is available.

There is a direct parcel post service from the United States of America to the Gold Coast by air and by sea.

**PUBLIC FINANCE**

The funded debt of the Gold Coast amounts to £8,410,000, and at the 31st March, 1949, the total of the statutory sinking funds for the redemption of public loans stood at £1,934,486. There are no local loan issues. There is also the sum of £1,040,987 in a Supplementary Sinking Fund. The main heads of taxation are Customs and Excise and Income Tax, the yield from these sources in the financial year 1948-49 being £5,616,838 and £2,959,047 respectively, out of a total revenue of £11,639,324.

The Customs Tariff is non-preferential.

The following articles are liable to a specific rate of import duty, or the ad valorem rate quoted, whichever is the higher:—

(a) Cotton Piece Goods:—
Printed, dyed, coloured, pile fabrics, fents, handkerchiefs and towels . . . . . . 10%

(b) Artificial Silk Piece Goods:—
Pile fabrics, fents and handkerchiefs . . . . . . 10%

(c) Apparel:—
Cardigans, shirts, singlets and hosiery . . . . . . 15%

(d) Oils, edible . . . . . . 15%

(e) Spirits, not potable, other than methylated and perfumed . . . . . . 20%

(f) Umbrellas and parasols . . . . . . 20%

(g) Spirits, not potable, perfumed . . . . . . 50%

The following articles, among others, are liable to a specific rate of import duty:—

(a) Beer.

(b) Cotton Piece Goods:—
Grey, white and interlock fabric.

(c) Motor vehicles other than commercial lorries.

(d) Oils, illuminating, lubricating and motor spirit.

(e) Certain provisions, including flour, coffee, saccharine and tea.

(f) Soap.

(g) Spirits.

(h) Tobacco.

(i) Wines.

All other articles, unless specifically exempted, are liable to an ad valorem import duty of 20 per cent., except the following, on which the ad valorem rate indicated is charged:—

Newsprint . . . . . . 7½%

Electric Storage Batteries . . . . . . 10%

Paints, Colours, Varnishes, etc. . . . . . . 10%

Confectionery . . . . . . 33⅓%

Perfumery . . . . . . 50%

The following products are liable to export duties:—

Cocoa, Diamonds, Manganese Ore and certain kinds of timber.

| Year | Revenue (£) | Expenditure (£) |
|------|------------|----------------|
| 1939-40 | 3,734,438 | 3,631,154 |
| 1940-41 | 3,868,830 | 3,871,624 |
| 1941-42 | 4,141,186 | 3,598,777 |
| 1942-43 | 4,331,894 | 4,153,883 |
| 1943-44 | 4,720,394 | 4,560,274 |
| 1944-45 | 5,866,665 | 4,534,612 |
| 1945-46 | 7,171,618 | 6,039,855 |
| 1946-47 | 7,567,589 | 6,630,140 |
| 1947-48 | 10,245,618 | *10,965,604 |
| 1948-49 | 11,639,324 | 11,487,703 |

*Includes £1,000,000 transferred to a supplementary sinking fund.

**CURRENCY AND BANKING**

Prior to 1912 and 1913 the currency consisted chiefly of British gold (comparatively rare), silver and copper. In 1912, subsidiary nickel-bronze coins (½d., ¼d. and ½d. pieces) were introduced, and in 1913 a special silver currency, common to all the British West African colonies, of the same
weight and fineness as the corresponding British coins. The coins issued are 2s., 1s., 6d., and 3d. pieces. Owing to the great increase in the demand for currency and the difficulties in obtaining adequate supplies, it was found necessary in 1915 to make British treasury notes legal tender, and in 1916 special West African currency notes were introduced. 20s. and 10s. notes are the only values now in circulation, £5, 2s. and 1s. notes having been withdrawn. In 1920, owing to the rapid disappearance of silver coins, an alloy coinage was introduced of the same denominations as the silver coins; and silver has now practically been withdrawn from circulation. In 1939 an improved type of alloy coin of the 2s., 1s., and 6d. denominations and a new threepenny-piece of nickel-bronze were introduced. The special West African currency silver and alloy coins and the West African currency notes are under the management of the West African Currency Board and are secured by sterling securities held by the Board. Current British gold and silver coins, West African currency silver and alloy coins, West African currency notes, and West African nickel-bronze coins are all legal tender.

The Bank of British West Africa, Ltd., opened at Accra on 1st January, 1897, and has branches at all the principal business centres in the colony. The Colonial Bank, now Barclays Bank (Dominion, Colonial and Overseas), began business at Accra in 1917, and branches have been opened at other centres. Both banks have a savings department. In 1888 a Government Savings Bank was established which is now under Post Office management. On 31st March, 1948, the amount to the credit of depositors was £3,031,500.

Accounts are kept in sterling.

**Production and Trade**

The great majority of the people of the Gold Coast are engaged in agriculture, mainly of a subsistence nature. The only important export crop is cocoa, of which 193,262 tons were exported in 1948. About 32,000 men are employed in the mining of gold, diamonds, manganese and bauxite. There are as yet few large factories in the Gold Coast. There is an important brewery in Accra, and there are large sawmills at Accra, Sekondi, Kumasi, Dunkwa, Oda, Ateiku, and in other parts of the country. A cocoa-butter factory at Takoradi commenced production during 1948.

The Industrial Development Corporation, a Government-sponsored organisation which was set up in October, 1947, with the object of establishing new industries and developing existing industrial undertakings, commenced work in 1948. Three limited companies have so far been formed, including a weaving business with semi-automatic looms and a soap works, each with a nominal capital of £10,000, while other projects receiving assistance from the Corporation included a laundry in Accra, a cassava processing business and a brick and tile work in Cape Coast and a sawmill in Kumasi.

Fishing is carried on at all the towns and villages on the coast, and inland along the rivers. A number of powered craft for sea-fishing have been introduced during the last year.

There is a very considerable export trade in timber, mahogany being the principal species exported. The chief exports in 1948 were as follows:

| Unit                  | Quantity | Value   |
|-----------------------|----------|---------|
| Cocoa                 | ton      | 214,302 | 20,327,048 |
| Gold                  | fine oz. | 670,645 | 5,754,021  |
| Manganese ore         | dry ton  | 629,973 | 2,698,706  |
| Bauxite               | ton      | 130,953 | 259,149    |
| Diamonds              | carats   | 878,092 | 976,060    |
| Timber—unmanufactured | cubic ft.| 7,095,671| 2,453,403  |
| Palm Kernels          | ton      | 7,139   | 165,121    |
| Rubber, raw           | lb       | 1,015,981| 39,267     |
| Copra                 | ton      | 350     | 11,315     |
| Lime products:        |          |         |           |
| Lime juice            | gal      | 270,767 | 27,139     |
| Lime oil              | gal      | 50      | 501        |
| Lime fruits (fresh)   | lb       | 572,940 | 5,122      |
| Palm oil              | ton      | 42      | 3,564      |
| Hides and Skins:      |          |         |           |
| Cattle, untanned      | ton      | 20      | 2,407      |
| Other kinds           | ton      | 32      | 4,703      |
| Coffee, raw           | lb       | 1,174,472| 32,299    |
| Kola nuts             | lb       | 12,989,595| 134,420   |

The value of the import trade, sea-borne and overland, in 1948 (exclusive of specie and currency notes) was £30,113,665, the principal imports being tobacco (all kinds), cotton piece goods, artificial silks, provisions, machinery, iron and steel manufactures, motor vehicles, tyres, medicines and drugs, fuel oil and motor spirit and cement.

### Imports

| Year | From U.K. | From Other British Countries | From Elsewhere | Total |
|------|-----------|------------------------------|---------------|-------|
|      | £         | £                            | £             | £     |
| 1939 | 7,199,842 | 506,466                      | 2,919,976     | 10,626,284 |
| 1940 | 4,640,607 | 867,938                      | 2,122,738     | 7,631,283 |
| 1941 | 3,739,084 | 1,014,633                    | 1,514,889     | 6,268,606 |
| 1942 | 5,787,290 | 1,836,945                    | 2,253,063     | 9,877,298 |
| 1943 | 6,391,034 | 1,364,326                    | 2,412,206     | 10,167,566 |
| 1944 | 5,841,938 | 1,418,808                    | 2,567,348     | 9,828,094 |
| 1945 | 5,867,597 | 1,270,865                    | 2,965,478     | 10,103,940 |
| 1946 | 8,423,087 | 1,492,332                    | 2,718,193     | 12,633,612 |
| 1947 | 11,380,542| 2,313,579                    | 7,787,637     | 21,481,758 |
| 1948 | 17,646,353| 2,768,919                    | 8,743,435     | 29,158,707 |

* These figures refer to calendar years.
### Exports (including Re-exports)

| Year | To U.K. | To Other British Countries | To Elsewhere | Total |
|------|---------|---------------------------|-------------|-------|
| 1939 | £12,320,235 | £351,902 | £3,563,151 | £16,235,288 |
| 1940 | £6,450,817 | £4,209,188 | £3,663,837 | £14,323,842 |
| 1941 | £4,297,377 | £7,264,613 | £1,986,419 | £13,548,409 |
| 1942 | £9,963,505 | £1,361,633 | £1,225,036 | £12,550,174 |
| 1943 | £9,738,101 | £688,613 | £2,204,568 | £12,631,282 |
| 1944 | £7,884,109 | £684,010 | £3,746,081 | £12,314,200 |
| 1945 | £7,970,050 | £1,209,838 | £5,946,259 | £15,126,147 |
| 1946 | £10,483,391 | £1,580,782 | £7,552,701 | £19,616,874 |
| 1947 | £10,484,734 | £1,389,863 | £8,892,187 | £20,766,784 |
| 1948 | £13,981,574 | £2,692,462 | £14,941,666 | £31,615,702 |

* These figures refer to calendar years.

### Customs Receipts

| Year | Total |
|------|-------|
| 1942 | £2,674,597 |
| 1943 | £2,903,417 |
| 1944 | £2,780,041 |
| 1946 | £3,558,666 |
| 1947 | £4,212,943 |
| 1948 | £4,957,126 |

### Shipping Entered and Cleared

| Year | British Tonnage | Total Tonnage |
|------|-----------------|---------------|
| 1939 | 2,547,933       | 4,334,463     |
| 1940 | 2,392,483       | 3,365,202     |
| 1941 | 2,086,426       | 3,145,018     |
| 1942 | 2,396,447       | 3,659,757     |
| 1943 | 2,496,073       | 3,750,685     |
| 1944 | 1,837,987       | 3,106,584     |
| 1945 | 2,325,714       | 3,888,784     |
| 1946 | 3,649,871       | 5,126,900     |
| 1947 | 3,017,629       | 4,301,389     |
| 1948 | 3,583,287       | 5,562,422     |

### Import and Export Traffic by Air

| Year | British | Total |
|------|---------|-------|
|      | Kilos   | Kilos |
| 1945 | 199,569 | 206,832 |
| 1946 | 118,509 | 119,907 |
| 1947 | 98,372  | 108,824 |
| 1948 | 133,811 | 165,362 |

### Governors of the Gold Coast

| Year | Governor |
|------|----------|
| 1874 | Captain George Cumine Strahan, R.A. |
| 1876 | Captain C. C. Lees, C.M.G. (Lieut.-Gov.) |
| 1876 | Sanford Freeing, Esq., C.M.G. |
| 1878 | Captain C. C. Lees, C.M.G. (Lieut.-Gov.) |
| 1879 | Herbert Taylor Ussher, Esq., C.M.G. |
| 1880 | W. Brandford Griffith, Esq., C.M.G. (Lieut.-Gov.) |
| 1881 | Sir Samuel Rowe, K.C.M.G. |
| 1882 | Captain C. A. Moloney, C.M.G. (Admr.) |
| 1882 | W. Brandford Griffith, Esq., C.M.G. (Lieut.-Gov.) |

### Executive and Legislative Councils

#### Executive Council

The Governor (President).
The Colonial Secretary.
The Chief Commissioner of the Colony.
The Chief Commissioner of Ashanti.
The Chief Commissioner of the Northern Territories.
The Attorney-General.
The Financial Secretary.
The Director of Medical Services.
Secretary for Rural Development.
Nana Sir Tsibu Darku IX, Kt., O.B.E.
Charles William Tachie-Menson.
Nana Kwame Gyebi Ababio.

#### Legislative Council

The Legislative Council is composed of the following members:

- President—E. C. Quist, an Elected Member.
- Ex-officio Members (6)—The Colonial Secretary; The Chief Commissioner of the Colony; The Chief Commissioner of Ashanti; The Chief Commissioner of the Northern Territories; The Attorney-General; The Financial Secretary.
Elected Members (18)—Nine provincial members elected from the Eastern and Western Provinces of the Colony; four Ashanti members; five municipal members.

Nominated Members (6)—Six members nominated by the Governor.

FOREIGN CONSULAR REPRESENTATIVES

Consuls
Denmark—J. B. Saxel (Honorary Consul), Accra.
France—Charles Renner (Consul), Accra.
Liberia—C. E. M. Abbensets (Honorary Consul), Sekondi.
Netherlands—J. E. Fischer (Honorary Consul), Accra.
Norway—William Oakey (Honorary Consul), Sekondi.
Switzerland—R. Knittel (Honorary Consul), Accra.
United States of America—William L. Peck (Consul), Accra.

Vice-Consuls
Belgium—C. L. Leiterer (Vice-Consul), Accra.
Finland—A. W. C. Major (Honorary Vice-Consul), Sekondi.
France—V. A. Gares (Vice-Consul), Accra.
Greece—John Leventis (Honorary Vice-Consul), Accra.
Liberia—J. C. Lucas (Honorary Vice-Consul), Accra.
Portugal—M. de A. Santos (Honorary Vice-Consul), Accra.
Spain—D. H. Medcalf (Honorary Vice-Consul), Accra.
United States of America—Scudder Mersman (Vice-Consul), Accra.

SHORT SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY

Gold Coast Institutions, by C. Hayford. Sweet & Maxwell, 1903, 15s.
Hausa Folk-Lore, by R. S. Rattray. Oxford, 1913, 30s. net.
A History of the Gold Coast and Ashanti, by W. W. Claridge. Murray, 1915, 36s.
A Vanished Dynasty—Ashanti, by Sir F. Fuller. Murray, 1921, 16s.
Akan Laws and Customs, by J. B. Danquah. Routledge, 1928, 10s. 6d.
Ashanti Law and Constitution, by R. S. Rattray. Oxford, 1929, 25s.
A Bibliography of the Gold Coast. A. W. Cardinall. 1931. 12s. 6d.
Tribes of the Ashanti Hinterland, by R. S. Rattray. Oxford, 1932.
The Gold Coast, 1931, by A. W. Cardinall. Government Printer, Accra, 1932, 12s. 6d.
The Gold Coast. Yesterday and Today, by P. Redmayne. Chatto & Windus, 1938, 10s. 6d.
A Short History of the Gold Coast, by W. E. Ward. Longmans Green, 1945, 3s. 6d.
A History of the Gold Coast, by W. E. F. Ward. Allen & Unwin, 1948, 21s.

CIVIL ESTABLISHMENT

Notes
In the following particulars of the Civil Establishment:

Scale A is as follows:
£450 for 3 years, 510–30–660, 720–30–960, 1,000.

Scale B is as follows:
£450 for 3 years, 510–20–610, 660–30–900.

Scale C is as follows:
Section 1—£450 for 3 years, £510–15–600.
Section 2—£660–20–720.
Section 3—£735–30–825.
Section 1A—£650.

Scale M2 is as follows:
£690 for 3 years, 720–30–1,000, 1,080–30–1,200.

To the above quoted basic salaries, expatriation pay is added in the case of expatriate officers according to the following table:

| Basic Salary | Expatriation Pay |
|--------------|------------------|
| £450–599     | £150             |
| £600–700     | £200             |
| £700–829     | £250             |
| £830–1,050   | £300             |
| £1,051–1,175 | £350             |
| £1,176–1,350 | £400             |
| £1,351–1,600 | £450             |
| £1,601–1,850 | £500             |
| Over £1,850  | £600             |

Officers provided by Government with furnished quarters are charged rent, assessed in accordance with salary.

GOVERNOR
Governor—Sir Charles Noble Arden Arden-Clarke, K.C.M.G. £4,500, plus £1,500 duty allowance.

ADMINISTRATION

Secretariat
Colonial Secretary—R. H. Saloway, C.I.E., O.B.E. £2,050.
Financial Secretary—R. P. Armitage, M.B.E. £1,650.
Under Secretary—S. Macdonald-Smith. £1,400.
Deputy Financial Secretary—H. J. N. Chapman. £1,200.
Senior Assistant Colonial Secretaries—C. D. A. Pullan; G. E. Sinclair; A. T. Kerr; P. Wilkins; H. M. Roemmelé. £1,200.
Assistant Colonial Secretaries—A. T. de B. Wilmot; D. M. Allen, M.B.E.; N. F. Ribeiro-Ayeh; W. H. A. Hanschell; J. C. B. Deakin; P. S. G. Smith; H. Millar-Craig; E. H. Roach; D. A. Anderson; J. C. Anderson; D. L. C. Price, M.C.; L. L. le P. Gardner; D. P. Hardy; R. M. E. Markham; H. T. B. B. Rooke, M.B.E.; G. M. Darling; W. V. Dickinson, M.B.E.; G. D. Lintott; M. de N. Ensor; P. F. de C. du Sautoy; R. N. M. Milton; M. J. E. Patteson, M.C.; J. D. E. Barnard; W. M. Mackay; R. W. Le B. Rickman. Scale A.
Secretary for Rural Development—vacant. £1,650.
Secretary for Commerce and Industry—F. Leach, O.B.E., M.C. £1,650.
Secretary for the Civil Service—G. Hadow, O.B.E. £1,650.
Secretary and Executive Officer, Town and Country Planning Board—A. E. S. Alcock. £1,100.
Secretary and Executive Officer, Industrial Development Board—Vacant. £800.
Statistician—A. B. Reisz. £1,100.
Chief Commissioner, Colony—Sir T. R. O. Margin, Kt., C.M.G. £1,650.
Chief Commissioner, Ashanti—C. O. Butler, C.M.G., E.D. £1,650.
Chief Commissioner, Northern Territories—E. N. Jones, O.B.E. £1,650.
Class I. Assistant Chief Commissioners, Commissioner, Cocoa Rehabilitation, Commissioner of Labour, Director of Social Welfare and Housing, Senior Judicial Adviser—G. N. Burden, M.B.E.; W. H. Beeton; D. A. Sutherland; A. J. Loveridge, O.B.E.; J. K. G. Syme; R. E. Walker. £1,350.

Class II. Deputy Financial Secretary, Senior Assistant Colonial Secretaries, Senior District Commissioners, Registrar of Co-operative Societies, Judicial Advisers, Deputy Director of Social Welfare and Housing—W. B. Smith; J. Dixon; R. G. Cooper; Hon. H. W. Amherst; W. A. S. Cole; A. C. Spooner; C. D. A. Pullan; G. E. Sinclair; H. J. N. Chapman; A. C. Russell; M. G. Hewson; P. Wilkins; R. W. Woolley; A. T. Kerr; H. M. Roemmle; A. F. Kerr; £1,200.

Classes III and IV. Assistant Colonial Secretaries, District Commissioners and Assistant District Commissioners—H. E. Devaux; R. K. Talbot; C. G. R. Amory; V. H. K. Littlewood; L. A. Britton; T. A. Mead; H. J. P. Crawford; R. E. Crabb; P. H. Canham; J. Duncan; A. T. de B. Wilmot; T. Hindle; D. M. Allen, M.B.E.; A. W. Davies; E. S. Packham; M. D. I. Gass; L. L. le P. Gardner; J. H. F. MacGiffin; P. L. Lindsell; J. N. Matson; W. H. A. Hanschell; P. W. C. Dennis; D. S. D. McWilliam; D. S. Turner; J. C. B. Deakin; C. P. Mercier; B. W. A. T. Knight; S. R. J. Kingston; P. S. G. Smith; G. M. Levack; J. A. R. Forster; I. W. Bennett, M.B.E.; N. F. Ribeiro Ayeh; P. E. Hamilton; W. S. Crane; D. P. Hardy; R. M. E. Markham; D. V. Mackay, D.S.O.; G. N. E. Charles, D.S.O.; A. L. Adu; A. R. Elliott; G. M. Darling; S. K. Anthony, M.B.E.; J. C. M. Paton; A. J. Townsend, M.C.; F. E. Taylor; J. B. Heigham; N. O. Dobbs; A. M. Frank, M.C.; J. M. L. Peake; A. Howe; W. V. Dickinson, M.B.E.; R. C. Parkin; C. M. Kelly; H. Millar-Craig; D. M. Dyer-Ball; J. S. Duthie; A. S. Jones; M. J. E. Patteson, M.C.; J. D. E. Barnard; E. B. S. Alton, M.B.E., M.C.; J. B. Hooper; G. D. Lintott; E. H. Roach; M. de N. Ensor; J. E. F. Codrington; R. J. Wallace; D. Earle; W. J. Caldow; W. N. L. Goldie-Scot; D. L. C. Price, M.C.; C. G. Ferguson, M.C.; I. E. Cochran; N. Hope; R. H. Bennett; D. A. Anderson; J. S. Lawson; J. A. Cowley; P. Helps; R. N. Denby; L. A. Bullwinkle; I. F. Bailie; A. H. Murray; B. G. S. Bumpus; T. J. Lennard; A. B. Smith, D.S.O., D.F.C.; P. F. de C. du Sautoy; J. C. Anderson; J. Green; J. H. D. Dickson; E. H. Salmon; D. P. Tripp, M.C.; C. E. Carrington; J. F. A. Rose; L. M. Davies; J. R. Wallis, M.C.; D. E. Richards; D. Heaton; H. C. Holmes; J. G. H. Wadsworth; J. B. Begent; G. J. L. Edwards; A. W. M. Dickie; R. N. M. Milton; H. T. B. B. Rooke, M.B.E.; F. St. M. Gerrard; W. R. Hancock; A. K. Grieve, M.C.; W. M. Mackay; R. W. Le B. Rickman; P. W. Thorogood; A. G. Cross; O. R. Blair; F. H. G. Goodwin; A. K. Cooper; A. S. Faiz; M. R. Venables; C. M. Weatherburn; B. F. Bolt; T. O'Driscoll Lunley; A. K. Cameron; E. H. Whitrow. Scale A.

ACCOUNTANT-GENERAL

Accountant-General—T. H. W. Gould. £1,300.
Deputy Accountant-General—W. C. Watson. £1,100.

Senior Accountants—J. H. Anderson; B. R. Leese. Scale B.
Accountants—C. A. Ackah; H. A. H. S. Grant; A. J. Prah; A. W. C. G. Ephson; M. A. Bentil. Scale B.
Assistant Accountants, Grade I—J. Ayitey-Adjin; E. C. M. Kuma. Scale C1.

AGRICULTURE

Director of Agriculture—Vacant. £1,400.
Deputy Director of Agriculture (Cocoa Industry)—J. D. Broatch. £1,200.
Deputy Director of Agriculture—R. D. Linton. £1,200.
Assistant Directors of Agriculture—C. L. Skidmore; J. M. Ward. £1,100.
Assistant Director of Agriculture (Cocoa Industry)—E. L. Hay, M.B.E. £1,100.
Assistant Director of Agriculture (Soil Science)—C. F. Charter. £1,100.
Principal Agricultural Education Officer—A. Smith. £1,100.
Chief Inspector of Produce—J. H. Bowen. £1,000.
Agricultural Economist—C. N. Coomes. Scale A.
Administrative Assistant—J. A. Davies. Scale C.1.
Office Assistant and Accountant—M. L. Augustt. Scale C.1.
Senior Agricultural Officers—C. W. Lynn, M.B.E.; A. E. Moss; A. Jones; F. R. B. Mullan; M. Akenhead; J. O. Torto; J. Coffe; G. R. Spurrell, E.D.; R. Smith; J. H. Hinds. Scale A.
Agricultural Officers—W. B. Mason; I. Sibson; D. Westwood; D. J. Billes; M. A. Blane; B. J. Silk; P. S. Hammond; A. Leslie; L. F. Derraugh; R. W. Eccles; F. A. Leeds; J. L. Jollans; P. S. Castle; W. Smith; A. K. Asem; P. H. M. Bailey. Scale A.
Agricultural Engineers—N. F. Furneaux. Scale A.
Production Officers—A. G. Adam; C. A. Likeman; W. L. Parsons. Scale C.1.
Agricultural Survey Officers—S. W. Rayment-Acton; C. D. Twidgen; T. H. P. Hartley; C. P. Wood; G. R. K. Ord; H. T. Shewan; R. R. H. Cave Lloyd; L. Brooke-Smith; J. A. Howarth; A. L. Titley; E. Millington, M.C.; R. A. Silverlock; J. E. Jones; T. B. Foster; R. J. Clark; J. M. Paterson; A. J. MacNair; W. C. Hill; A. C. de Graaff; R. J. Hayfron; H. B. Daniel; E. V. W. Quarterey; M. K. Manyoh; J. K. Dansu; J. E. Osei Tutu; P. K. A. Badoo; S. P. Pobee; C. B. Amoonoo; S. A. Adow; V. E. Osei; E. G. Waller; J. B. Watson; K. C. Barfield; R. G. Liquorish; W. C. Bryce; M. B. Morphy; R. L. Keevil. Scale B.
Accountants—R. L. Grennan. Scale B.
Senior Soil Scientist—Dr. H. Vine. £1,000.
Specialists—C. A. Lister; P. H. Nye; W. A. Hughes; J. Bowden; R. A. Neve. Scale A.
Horticulturists—P. S. L. Benton. Scale C.1, 2.
Senior Inspectors of Produce—V. L. Ferguson; J. R. O. Humphries. Scale C.3.
Inspectors of Produce—L. D. Branch; C. G. Brand; J. C. Robertson; A. R. Evans; B. E. Sherred; W. A. Howlett; M. Owen; P. A. O'Donoghue; R. E. Gourmand; J. Slippe; J. A. Aryeeetey; L. Q. Reimner; T. S. Addo; C. A. Collins; T. M. Bannerman-Martin. Scale C.1, 2.
AIR SERVICES

Airport Manager—N. E. M. Giles. Scale B.
Air Traffic Control Officer, Grade II—D. J. Hitchcock. Scale C.1.2.3.
Air Traffic Control Officers, Grade III—D. I. Stewart; P. J. Crofts; R. M. Lindsay. Scale C.1.2.
Air Services Fire Superintendent—W. Ramage. Scale C.3.

ANIMAL HEALTH

Director of Veterinary Services—S. Simpson. £1,350.
Deputy Director of Veterinary Services—F. W. Aston. £1,100.
Senior Veterinary Officer—R. H. Hutchinson. Scale A.
Veterinary Officers—W. A. G. Richter; J. M. L. McCulloch. Scale A.

AUDIT

Director of Audit—R. F. Pinder, O.B.E. £1,300.
Deputy Director of Audit—J. E. Barker. £1,100.
Principal Auditor—D. P. Uttley. £1,050.
Senior Auditors—C. J. Guthrie; C. Hunter; V. L. Budge; E. L. Clegg; J. E. Earnshaw, D.F.C. £810–30–900.
Auditors and Assistant Auditors—J. H. Higgins, A. B. Warrick; L. S. H. Clode; J. E. Ayettey, M.B.E.; R. D. Pead; K. R. L. Evans; F. H. Sims; D. B. Chatterton; E. N. O. Hammond; P. T. Warr; R. J. Martin; J. C. Hobbs. £450, £450, £250, £510–20–610, £660–30–780.

BROADCASTING

Superintendent of Broadcasting—J. W. Foster. £1,100.
Senior Broadcast Officers—T. A. Huxtable; E. E. Frewin; H. W. Akester; F. R. Fuller; J. R. Ord-Jolly; D. H. Michel; J. Chambers; R. A. S. Buckman. Scale B.

COCOA REHABILITATION

Commissioner for Cocoa Rehabilitation—R. E. Walker. £1,350.
Chief Accountant—F. H. R. Paddick. £1,100.

COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY

Secretary for Commerce and Industry—F. Leach, O.B.E., M.C. £1,650.
Assistant Secretary for Commerce and Industry (Development)—L. E. M. Notley. £1,350.
Assistant Secretary for Commerce and Industry (Commercial)—R. E. Vidal. £1,200.
Senior Assistant Controllers and Assistant Controllers—F. L. Dickson, M.B.E.; F. C. Hopton; P. Grant; F. P. T. MacDonald; J. A. Turner. Scale B.

CO-OPERATION

Registrar of Co-operative Societies—M. G. Hewson. £1,200.
Deputy Registrars of Co-operative Societies—E. W. A. B. Sam, O.B.E. £1,100; G. N. Alema. £1,200.
Assistant Registrars—A. E. Chinbuah; C. G. Joannides; D. Naysmith; B. W. A. T. Knight; C. R. Gambrill; E. F. Herbert. Scale A.

CUSTOMS AND EXCISE

Comptroller of Customs and Excise—C. W. Hayward. £1,300.
Deputy Comptroller of Customs and Excise—C. M. Bayfield. £1,150.
Chief Inspector of Customs—A. G. Davidson, E.D. £1,050.
Senior Collectors—M. S. Murphy; A. D. W. Allen; A. G. N. Jones; E. G. Gulliver; P. McDevitt. Scale B.
Collectors—C. D. Wilson; I. T. Agbettor; W. G. Dako; C. L. Watson; J. A. Turner; W. C. Mensah, M.B.E.; F. A. Arthur; S. M. Codjoe; N. W. Hyder; E. Buckley; R. Maxwell; R. F. J. Oxley; L. J. Zwennes; R. J. Sagoe; A. Asare Djan; E. A. Quansah-Solomon. Scale B.

EDUCATION

Director of Education—T. Barton, O.B.E. £1,400.
Deputy Director of Education—K. J. Dickens. £1,200.
Assistant Directors of Education—W. S. Bickerstaff; Miss E. P. Clark. £1,100.
Principals, Teacher Training College—M. F. G. Wentworth, O.B.E.; J. Wilson. £1,100.
Senior Education Officers—J. R. Marshall; J. L. Coulson; T. C. Watkins; B. E. Carman; F. E. Joselin. Scale A.
Education Officers—J. A. Addo; N. C. Lawrence; C. M. O. Mate; Miss I. M. Travis; Miss E. W. G. Gladstone; P. R. Mosedale; J. M. Bannochie; C. Davidson; R. N. Bryant; I. M. Stewart; T. T. Buchanan; D. W. Dudley Smith; L. E. Harrison; A. G. Page; E. D. Roberts; A. F. Neale; E. H. Nicholson; J. G. A. Pattinson; W. G. Jones; J. G. Rodger; Miss P. F. V. Awoonor-Renner; W. Grason; E. D. M. Walse; G. A. Winter; M. F. Dei-Anang; P. Vanderpuye; H. T. Essife; T. C. Annan; Miss Phyllis Sageman; D. J. Buahin; Miss Joan Mellor; Miss E. L. Mackie; Miss B. R. Burdess. Scale A.
Principal, Government Technical School—D. A. Russell. £1,100.
Senior Masters (Senior Mistresses) Technical Education Masters (Mistresses) Technical School—L. A. Woodroffe; R. D. Swan; Miss A. W. Morgan; C. J. Bodicoat; W. A. Hall; H. W. Hesse; R. W. H. Ashworth; R. J. Hemingway; A. A. Jones; G. C. Collecott; W. Heslop; J. Hargreaves; J. Hooton. Scale C.1.

ELECTRICAL DEPARTMENT

Chief Electrical Engineer—Vacant. £1,200.
Senior Electrical Engineers—H. Smith; D. H. Skinner. Scale A.
Electrical Engineers—A. R. Townsend; E. A. Sackey; P. A. Trayler; F. W. Lunau; L. G. Jones; T. F. Vivian; J. McGowan-Docherty.
Station Engineers, Grade I—W. Whyte; N. Pearson; C. H. Scott; R. T. Mills; H. J. Derrett; T. Logan.
Station Engineers, Grade II—S. F. C. Olive; R. S. Russell; J. R. Johns; B. O. Baigent; E. A. Stuart; W. Howe; T. H. McBride; S. G. Corke; J. Allen; D. F. England; R. Hart; G. Thomas; R. I. Rees; C. T. H. Buckley; C. Morgan; C. H. Dromey; G. W. Smith; R. F. Druce; E. H. Palmer; J. E. Jacobs. Scale A.
Senior Accountant—R. A. Bignell. Scale B.
Accountants—A. Maule; A. A. Tourney; A. B. Dadson; V. W. A. Labi. Scale B.

FISHERIES

Senior Fisheries Officer—F. R. Johnson, M.B.E. £1,100.
Fisheries Officers—M. B. Noel-Buxton. Scale A.
Master Fisherman—D. Livingstone. Scale C.1.
FORESTRY

Chief Conservator of Forests—R. L. Brooks. £1,350.

Deputy Chief Conservator of Forests—D. Stevenson. £1,150.

Conservators of Forests—W. T. S. Brown; G. M. Tolmie; F. E. Hughes. £1,100.

Senior Assistant Conservators—A. Foggie; I. W. G. Cameron; I. A. Beveridge; F. G. Harper; D. Kinloch; A. C. Russell; C. J. Taylor, M.B.E.; R. M. Harley. Scale A.

Assistant Conservators—H. A. Douglas; D. C. Duff; D. A. Lane; W. A. Miller; W. B. Collins; M. T. Horwood; J. M. Ramsay; D. M. M. Kellas; G. H. Thompson; J. J. Lawrie; J. Gordon; R. G. Morgan; D. J. E. Anderson; J. C. Wilson; D. A. J. Wood; F. W. T. Bodeker; G. S. MacPherson; P. A. Francis; J. M. Wheelan; D. M. Duggie. Scale A.

GEOLoGICAL SURVEY

Director—T. Hirst. £1,350.

Deputy Director—D. A. Bates, M.B.E. £1,100.

Senior Geologist—J. F. Feakes. Scale A.

Geologists—A. T. Crow; W. B. Tevendale; L. O. Gay; D. Aitkenhead; E. A. Edmonds. Scale A.

Petrologist—Vacant. Scale A.

INCOME TAX

West Africa

Commissioner of Income Tax—W. B. Dare. £1,500.

Deputy Commissioner—A. Hepburn-Smith. £1,300.

Senior Assessment Officer—W. A. Stephenson. Scale B.

Assessment Officer—Vacant. Scale B.

Gold Coast

Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax—R. C. Gibbons. £1,100.

Assistant Commissioners—B. J. Bowick; F. G. Reynolds. £1,000.

Senior Assessment Officers—A. F. Page; M. R. Macartney.

Assessment Officers—A. L. Earp; J. J. Costelloe. Scale B.

JUDICIAL

Chief Justice—Mark Wilson. £2,050.

Puisne Judges—A. C. Smith; J. H. Coussey; C. A. Hooper, C.M.G.; J. Jackson; K. A. Korsah, C.B.E.; S. O. Quashie-Idun; Ragnar Hyne; H. M. Windsor-Aubrey. £1,950 (consolidated).

Chief Registrar—D. H. Shackles. £1,100.

District Magistrates. £1,300—G. Lingley; C. S. Acolatse; W. B. Van Lare; E. A. L. Bannerman; J. C. Burt; H. B. Benson; I. V. Elyan; H. C. Smith; T. A. Dennison; E. A. N. F. Crabbe. Scale A.

Divisional Court Registrars—K. O. Quansah; J. T. Odametey; J. E. K. Attram; J. G. R. Vanderpuye; C. W. Dugbartey-Narnor. Scale C.1.

LABOUR

Commissioner of Labour—G. N. Burden, M.B.E. £1,350.

Assistant Commissioner of Labour and Chief Resettlement Officer—L. C. Whitcombe, E.D. £1,100.

Senior Labour Officers—I. G. Jones; O. Kitching. £1,100.

Labour Officers—S. O. Gaisie; J. S. Annan; J. V. L. Phillips; E. J. Bailey; D. W. MacKenzie; L. Saich; I. F. Baillie; R. A. Quarshie. Scale A.

Resettlement Officers—E. C. Kilford; A. J. Manktelow; H. E. Colbeck; O. P. Partridge, T.D.

LANDS

Commissioner of Lands—G. W. Stacpoole, E.D. £1,150.

Deputy Commissioner of Lands—C. F. Williams.

Assistant Commissioners of Lands—F. E. Webster; F. G. Adamson; R. W. Turner; A. R. Baster; R. B. Brown; R. J. H. Pogucki; C. J. E. Grundy. Scale A.

Valuer—C. C. Hipgrave, M.B.E. Scale A.

Record Draughtsmen—H. Stephenson; S. V. Roberts. Scale C.1.2.

District Valuers—W. Robertson; E. J. Wood. Scale A.

Officers-in-Charge Records—G. Higginson; R. S. Suttie. Scale C.1.2.

LEGAL

Attorney-General—P. F. Branigan. £1,650.

Solicitor-General—F. K. Ewart. £1,300.

Crown Counsel—P. N. Dalton; R. M. H. Rodwell; A. N. Buckmaster; G. V. C. Young; J. McKeon. Scale A.

MEDICAL

Director of Medical Services—C. Cheverton. £1,650.

Deputy Director of Medical Services—W. S. Ormiston. £1,500.

Assistant Directors of Medical Services—H. J. Bermingham; R. Ramsay; J. H. Dobbin; G. Watt. £1,400.

Senior Specialist—A. J. Hawe. £1,400.

Specialists—C. Bowesman; G. Watt, M.B.E.; S. W. Cooper; J. S. McGregor; G. F. T. Saunders; B. A. S. Russell; W. R. Phillips; G. Robinson. £1,300.

Medical Officers—G. M. Minifie; D. R. Griffith; E. R. Gauld; N. Q. Hesse; W. R. Phillips; C. H. Bannerman; E. W. Q. Bannerman; M. Davy-Hayford; I. J. Amorin; A. H. Chenard de la Giraudais; J. R. S. Innes; A. H. Hall; P. M. J. Phillips; N. Gray; M. P. Browne; R. W. Palmer; D. B. George; G. C. Franklin; J. D. Greene; G. McHugh; E. Akwei; C. Odamten-Easmon; E. J. Dioletto; I. F. K. Hughton; M. M. Hughes; R. F. Antonio; G. M. Edington; T. K. Howat; G. A. Owen; A. H. Dunnett; M. J. Colbourne; J. C. V. Murphy; Miss M. E. Gamble; R. H. O. Bannerman; J. N. Robertson; T. Golebski; S. Wozniak; J. Braun; C. W. J. Hingston; G. W. R. Macgregor; F. R. Roberts; Mrs. Hanna Wozniak; L. Goodman; J. L. Q. Vanderpuije; B. J. Chelmicki; A. F. Fowler; V. J. G. Macgregor; C. B. Huppenbauer; J. L. C. Whitcombe; T. A. Morton; J. Farrugia; G. D. Arthur; J. A. Byrne; F. C. Harris. Scale A.

Medical Officers of Health—K. C. MacKenzie; H. C. Armstrong; H. M. Carson; D. Scott; H. B. I. Russell; W. R. Williams; B. B. Waddy; J. Belej. Scale A.

Chief Accountant and Executive Officer—Vacant. Scale B.

Chief Medical Storekeeper—C. E. Thomas. Scale B.

Medical Stock Verifier—G. J. D. Beckingham. Scale C.1.
Dental Surgeons—E. M. Brown; I. St. C. Alderdice. Scale A.

Government Pharmacist—E. Allman. Scale C.1.

Chief Sanitary Superintendent—F. J. Buckle. Scale C.2.

Training Officer—N. S. Elliott. Scale C.2.

Science Master—Vacant.

Sanitary Superintendents—C. R. Parfitt; F. A. Peek; V. R. Coe; A. E. Sherwood; R. S. Donald; A. E. Lynott; A. R. F. Slater. Scale C.1.

Port Malarial Inspector—J. B. Robson. £870.

Pathologist—R. D. Reid. Scale M.2.

Senior Laboratory Superintendent—K. C. Lisle. Scale C.2.

Laboratory Superintendents—D. C. Anderson; I. A. Hepple; P. C. Paittoo. Scale C.1.

Superintendent, Limb-fitting Centre—S. H. J. Brown. Scale C.2.

Principal Matron—Miss G. R. Nickols, M.B.E. £750.

Matrons, European Nursing Staff—Miss K. W. Storrier, O.B.E.; Miss V. M. V. Luscombe. £690.

Senior Nursing Sister—Miss A. C. Belton. Scale N.2.

Nursing Sisters—Miss M. G. Agnew; Miss P. G. Hirst-James; Miss M. Scannel; Miss J. L. Brown; Miss J. S. Ross; Miss J. M. McLeod Martin; Miss D. H. Lynn; Miss I. L. W. Gorman; Miss M. E. Leitch; Miss L. M. West; Miss J. McMeeking; Miss M. McGregor Morrison; Miss M. D. Bain; Miss A. L. Cooke; Miss Cornelia Francois; Miss M. B. N. White; Miss M. L. Blundell; Miss M. Rankin; Miss K. G. Camp; Miss A. M. Howell; Miss N. F. Anderson; Miss R. R. Johnson; Miss J. M. Tucker; Miss M. T. Caulfield; Miss M. L. Bunce; Miss E. P. P. Rigg; Miss J. A. Brereton; Miss K. J. W. Wilson. Scale N.1.

Sister Tutor—Miss N. K. Hern. Scale N.2.

Radiographers—E. Dalton; N. F. Kind; V. G. Connett; P. Elsip; E. A. Tubb. Scale C.1.2.

Nutrition Officer—Miss M. M. Brown.

Trypanosomiasis Campaign, etc.

Specialist—G. F. T. Saunders.

Entomologist—K. R. S. Morris. Scale A.

Research Assistant, Tsetse-fly and Trypanosomiasis—M. G. Morris. £600–30–750.

Reclamation Officer—D. Farr.

Leprosy Survey

Medical Officer—Dr. A. McKelvie. Scale A.

Lay Assistant—J. H. Eldon. Scale C.1.

Sister Tutors—Miss I. M. Hutton; Miss G. D. Burton. Scale N.2.

Nurses’ Training College and Hostel

English Mistresses—Miss W. E. Roberts; Miss K. J. Trott.

Science Mistress—Miss R. S. Wright. Scale C.1.2.

MINES

Chief Inspector of Mines—D. M. McNair, M.B.E. £1,300.

Senior Inspector of Mines—C. W. F. Bond.

Inspectors of Mines—J. F. McLaren; S. H. Viney; G. A. Jess; T. H. Winsor. Scale A.

Inspector of Machinery—H. B. E. Waters. Scale A.

POLICE

Commissioner of Police—M. K. N. Collens. £1,350.

Deputy Commissioner of Police—W. R. B. Pugh. £1,150.

Assistant Commissioner of Police—J. N. Franklin. £1,050.

Superintendents—W. A. Goven; E. M. Berkely-Barton; D. G. Carruthers; S. S. Hordern; H. P. Morris; T. D. Widdup; I. G. Weir; A. L. Alexander; J. C. Hooton, M.B.E.; A. G. Ames; E. J. Doxat; L. Chapman; A. R. Millar.

Senior Assistant Superintendents and Assistant Superintendents—J. L. Carter; J. T. A. Bailey; J. C. Ofuatey-Kodjoe; C. W. Quist; C. H. K. Strike; C. R. Edelsten; F. J. Hockley; W. H. Gillespie; P. J. H. Cooper; A. G. West-Pierce; W. R. Reeve; A. O. Bather; C. F. Cobb; J. V. Prendergast; E. Brooks, M.C.; A. W. Fordyce, M.B.E.; B. A. Lane; J. B. Lees; G. Skelton-Smith; T. W. Jenkins; A. R. Ampaw; E. R. T. Madjitey; S. A. Amable; S. E. Anamang; R. A. S. Borland; E. R. Oughton; A. R. C. Govier. Scale B.

Seconded Officers

Superintendents of Police—R. F. Christie; M. I. N. Gordon.

Assistant Superintendents of Police—J. C. Robertson; J. F. G. Coles; C. F. Rawlins; J. McCabe; P. R. Jelascics; P. A. Morris; K. A. Price; E. C. Beattie; J. A. G. Hewitt; J. O’Neill; L. A. Hobbs; J. F. Brown; J. S. Grimoldby; E. C. Dibley; B. E. Wadeley.

Bandmaster—S. T. Vinnicombe. Scale C.1.

Office Assistant and Accountant—J. M. Hansen. Scale C.1.

POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS

Postmaster-General—A. J. Borland, O.B.E. £1,300.

Deputy Postmaster-General—H. R. Senior, I.S.O. £1,150.

Engineer-in-Chief—F. Paltridge, D.S.O., E.D. £1,150.

Assistant Engineer-in-Chief—J. Macklin. £1,050.

Senior Engineers—F. J. Greer; E. T. K. Cann. Scale A.

Engineers—J. R. F. Robertson; T. F. Hall; J. E. Browne; E. M. Koram; F. C. Dickinson; P. S. Riddell; A. J. Addison; J. G. O’Baka Torro; J. B. P. Pirie. Scale A.

Master, Posts and Telegraphs Technical School—C. A. Payne. Scale A.

Instructors, Posts and Telegraphs Technical School—S. J. Jenkins; L. H. Bonner. Scale C.1.2.

Workshops Superintendent—C. R. Barsted. Scale B.

Assistant Workshops Superintendent—W. F. Irvine. Scale C.1.2.

Senior Inspector—E. A. Cole. Scale C.1.

Inspectors—S. M. Roberts; E. Q. Davies; G. A. Buckman; J. E. O. Lamprey; R. O. Lamprey; J. M. Okai; T. T. Addy; J. K. Abrahams; J. K. Eyiminagha. Scale C.1.

Controller of Posts—A. B. Cawthra.

Senior Assistant Controllers of Posts—N. Smith; H. Metcalf; T. Hoey. Scale B.
Assistant Controllers of Posts—F. E. B. Clark; E. A. Wilson; J. D. Clottey; W. G. J. Cruickshank; A. P. O. Maslen; R. Dodd; S. C. Allotey; S. G. Yeboa; C. C. Nunoo; J. Gath; G. R. Jones; R. A. H. Arthur. Scale B.

Senior Wireless Engineer—J. D. Robinson. Scale A.

Wireless Engineer—R. G. Sharpe. Scale A.

Wireless Officers—W. E. Goldspink; C. H. O. Nana-Attoo; F. C. Clifton; R. G. Best; A. A. Clottey. Scale C.1.

Telephone Traffic Superintendent—Miss B. M. Cockwill. Scale C.2.

Telephone Exchange Superintendents—Miss I. W. Diverall; Miss M. P. Dennis; Miss I. E. Cockram. Scale C.1.

Senior District Postmaster—D. I. Quartey. Scale C.1.

Chief Accountant—A. W. Beardmore. £1,050.

Senior Accountant—Vacant.

Accountants—S. Q. Odoi; F. Stock; C. K. F. Adapoe; R. R. Yearley; A. P. Ametowobia. Scale B.

Superintendent of Stores—C. H. Tomkins. Scale C.2.

Assistant Superintendents of Stores—J. S. Coomson; G. Whyte. Scale C.1.

Controller Post Office Savings Bank—C. G. Folwell. Scale B.

Assistant Controller Post Office Savings Bank—R. S. Ramsay. Scale B.

PRINTING

Government Printer—G. Worthington. £1,100.

Superintendents, Government Press—G. B. Pound; R. Martin, B.E.M. Scale C.3.

Assistant Superintendents, Government Press—E. W. C. French; E. G. F. Richardson; J. Talbot. Scale C.1.

PRISONS

Director of Prisons—H. C. Wheatley, O.B.E., E.D. £1,100.

Deputy Director of Prisons—Vacant. £900.

Senior Prison Superintendent—J. A. Carnall. Scale C.2.

Prison Superintendents—C. B. Moses; T. W. Troth; S. A. Broad; S. E. Hutchings; W. J. W. Burton; T. A. Hanford; K. F. Watson; W. B. G. Humphrey; H. E. Ashe; L. E. Finbow. Scale C.1.2.

Instructor of Industries—C. Dibb. Scale C.1.

PUBLIC RELATIONS

Public Relations Officer—V. J. A. Lillie-Costello, M.C. £1,500.

Deputy Public Relations Officer—R. J. Moxon. £1,000.

Assistant Public Relations Officers—G. M. Levack; W. E. Hall; F. E. Taylor; T. J. Lennard; D. P. Tripp, M.C. Scale A.

Film Director—S. Graham.

Script Writer—J. B. Odenton. Scale C.1.

Cameraman—Vacant.

Cinema Officer—H. E. Lironi. Scale B.

Cinema Technician—P. J. Blackwood.

Senior Programme Officer—R. H. W. Mason. Scale B.

Studio Manager—J. F. B. Kenyon. Scale C.2.3

Programme Officers—L. Pearce; C. L. Patterson. Scale C.1.2.

PUBLIC WORKS

Director of Public Works—Vacant. £1,500.

Deputy Director of Public Works—D. W. McCulloch. £1,200.

Assistant Directors of Public Works—A. Dempster; G. Paltridge. £1,100.

Executive Engineers, Grade I—T. D. Lewis; J. Moore; G. T. Croad; E. C. Maguire; M. F. T. Ward. Scale A.

Executive Engineers, Grade II—S. C. Carver; A. O. Barrie; C. M. Blunn; A. M. Milne; R. F. Batley; W. Batley; J. B. Staunton; E. C. Martin; L. F. Mulligan; H. L. Binning; J. K. Wardzala; K. Dabrowski; E. Lartey; H. F. Winful; S. Schwed; R. A. Smith; L. K. Apaloo; N. R. de Courcy; K. D. Robinson. Scale A.

Chief Inspectors of Works—A. T. Wood; H. A. Peters; F. C. Jones; J. Casley. Scale C.1.

Workshop Foreman—Vacant.

Inspectors of Works (Civil and Waterworks)—J. D. Mitchell; C. O. Cooper; P. A. McLachlan; J. S. Ballantyne; A. W. Richardson; C. D. Jones; E. P. Burrage; E. E. Darby; E. Summerton; R. U. Riley; P. G. Hanna; G. S. Usmar; A. E. James; R. F. Pacey; R. H. Mitchell; D. McLachlan; S. F. Goodlace; L. A. B. Toms; E. J. Wood; A. Stewart; M. E. L. Lloyd; H. Allison; J. S. Boon; D. C. Hayden; H. G. Bartholomew; E. O'Brien; S. Kellett; D. Fletcher; W. H. Self; F. H. Brown; R. Wood; J. Thompson; J. T. Goffon; A. J. Rumble; A. Fowkes; J. Burrows; W. D. Bell; W. F. Criddle; F. Tidswell; L. L. Northfield; J. Twaddle. Scale C.1.

Temporary Foremen of Works—S. G. Blackmore; E. G. Evans; L. G. Jackson; R. C. Goodall; R. A. Woodfield.

Water Examination Specialist—J. S. Dunn. £1,100.

Government Chemist—T. W. Brandon. Scale A.

Chief Mechanical Engineer—I. D. MacLennan, O.B.E.

Senior Mechanical Engineer—H. M. W. Tracey.

Mechanical Engineers—J. Dobson; G. J. D. Whiteman; D. Foulger. Scale A.

Station Engineers—T. Cox; J. L. Gamble; R. G. James; L. G. Watkins.

Inspectors of Works (Mechanical)—G. F. Donald; W. Harrison; W. J. B. Johnston; L. C. Corke; G. Moxon; R. Newhouse. Scale C.1.

Chief Architect—A. F. D. Seale. £1,100.

Architects—R. G. Parker; H. Norcliffe; C. W. Turner; K. Scott. Scale A.

Quantity Surveyor—W. T. Baverstock.

Accounting and Storekeeping Staff—Chief Accountant—D. Howie. £1,100.

Assistant Chief Accountant—G. E. Dickson. Scale B.

Chief Stores Accountant—Vacant.

Accountants—A. E. Edwards, E.D.; J. A. Barnor; T. W. V. Search; S. N. Styles; A. V. Warrillow; G. H. Jeffries; M. B. Kwashie-Unicorn; J. A. Hammond; T. A. Addy; V. O. Albertsen; T. C. Avery; J. W. Paul. Scale B.

Structural Engineer—E. H. Moody. £750.
RAILWAY AND TAKORADI HARBOUR

General Manager and Harbour Authority—W. H. Salkield. £1,650.

Personnel Manager—W. J. Davies, M.B.E. £1,200.

Assistant to the General Manager—F. J. Bush, M.B.E. £1,050.

Administrative Assistants—A. G. Norman; G. L. Harris. Scale C.1.2.

Chief Accountant—R. F. Allan. £1,150.

Senior Accountants—E. Oldham; J. O. Frappell.

Accountants—E. Johnston; J. E. Blankson; W. N. Mensah; G. Law; G. E. Culpin; I. Ennin; I. D. Honny. Scale B.

Travelling Inspector of Stores and Accounts—B. Q. Nelson. Scale C.1.

Senior Storekeeper—W. Ritchie. Scale C.3.

Storekeepers—E. O. Lamptey; R. McWilliam. Scale C.1.2.

Storekeeper (Technical)—G. Baillie.

Chief Engineer—D. J. Stott. £1,200.

Senior Engineers—J. P. C. Bell; S. Grunberg.

Assistant Engineers—R. I. Crawford; S. D. M. Robertson; J. M. Brown; A. R. Otoo; J. H. Craig; F. M. Cagney. Scale A.

Technical Instructor—W. W. Howe. Scale C.1.2.

Foreman of Works—T. Lister; J. K. Shiels. Scale C.1.

Foreman Platelayers, Grade I—C. G. Reynolds; J. Bathgate; R. L. P. W. Bruce; A. Gardiner; W. G. Screen; A. W. Hall; J. MacDonald; W. G. R. Lawrence. Scale C.1.

Chief Mechanical Engineer—H. A. Johnson. £1,200.

Senior Locomotive Superintendent—Vacant.

Assistant Locomotive Superintendent—G. K. B. de Graff Johnson. Scale A.

Assistant Works Managers—F. C. Steward; Capt. F. J. Hayward, E.D. Scale A.

Technical Instructor—A. E. Turner. Scale C.1.2.

Shed Inspector—A. E. W. Joyce. Scale C.1.A.

Locomotive Foremen, Grade I—E. J. K. Reid; E. J. Day; H. Collman; A. F. Ironside; E. E. Hoogstraten.

Outdoor Carriage and Wagon Foreman, Grade I—R. E. Cowley. Scale C.1.

Locomotive Inspectors, Grade I—includes one supernumerary to establishment—J. McCaskill; N. C. Watts. Scale C.1.

Boiler Inspector—R. B. J. Eke. Scale C.1.A.

Progress Officer—E. S. Cross. Scale C.1.A.

Senior Workshop Foremen—J. E. Small; V. M. Walker; L. E. Miles; E. Taylor; W. Gordon; F. L. G. Bonham; A. J. Mold.

Workshop Foremen, Grade I—W. Scurfield; W. H. Collis; A. V. Leeworthy; C. F. Hayes.

Workshop Foremen, Grade II—A. McIlwraith; N. Forster; A. Maclean; W. T. Strange; A. W. Bedford; J. S. C. Sturmy; J. Marsh; F. Auckland; S. G. Barnes; S. Phillips; H. R. Walker; S. Seymour; J. McQuilken; E. Rees; C. E. Dew; C. P. Mackendrick; A. B. Torbet; E. R. Harris; A. J. Clifton; E. G. Else; J. Bankah; C. L. Combev; J. I. Watson; G. Moore; A. Young; T. H. Green. Scale C.1.

Electrical Engineer—E. T. H. Wilkinson. Scale A.

Traffic Manager—G. W. Staig. £1,200.

Senior Traffic Superintendents—J. A. Smith; J. K. Dougal; S. A. Aston; S. Wright. Scale B.

Assistant Traffic Superintendents—E. A. Cunningham; A. M. Agbokpor; E. C. Schollar. Scale B.

Traffic Instructor—G. E. Eyre. Scale C.1.2.

Foremen of Works—E. Thompson, B.E.M.; D. W. Glennie. Scale C.1.

Mechanical Foreman, Grade I—F. L. Giles. Scale C.1.

Assistant Electrical Engineer—S. C. Fisher. Scale A.

Electrical Foreman—G. Scotcher. Scale C.1.

Marine Superintendent—Capt. H. V. Briscoe, C.I.E., O.B.E. (R.N.) (Rtd.). £1,050.

Senior Pilot—D. D. Jones. Scale C.1.2.

Pilots—Lieut.-Comdr. P. H. Chatwin, R.D.; R.N.R. (R.Q.); W. H. W. Roberts; K. A. J. Pitt.

Tug Masters—J. M. M. Stewart; H. Moxon; N. Mackinnon; A. H. I. Weir. Scale C.1.

Senior Mechanical Foreman—R. F. W. Hall. Scale C.1.A.

Mechanical Foreman, Grade II—W. E. Atkins. Scale C.1.

Fire Service Officer—E. C. Fowler. Scale C.1.2.3.

SOCIAL WELFARE AND HOUSING

Director of Social Welfare and Housing—Vacant. £1,350.

Deputy Director of Social Welfare and Housing—W. A. S. Cole. £1,200.

Assistant to the Director of Social Welfare and Housing—W. S. Crane, T.D. Scale A.

Senior Welfare Officers—N. A. Rae; A. R. G. Prosser; O. B. Barton; J. G. Payton. Scale C.1.2.

Social Welfare

Principal Probation Officer—P. H. Hare. Scale C.2.3.

Principal of Industrial School—J. A. Hamilton. Scale C.2.3.

Housing

Senior Executive Engineer—A. T. Flutter. £1,100.

Executive Engineer, Grade II—Vacant. Scale A.

SURVEY DEPARTMENT

Director of Surveys—C. R. Petty. £1,200.

Deputy Director of Surveys—W. Harrison. £1,100.

Senior Surveyors—K. M. Vaughan, D.S.M.; E. D. Fort; T. W. Wignall. Scale A.

Surveyors—A. E. W. Nesbitt, M.C.; G. G. Hanson, M.B.E.; R. T. Russell, M.B.E. Scale A.

Senior Instructor, Survey School—A. V. Lawes. Scale A.

Cartographer—F. C. Blake. Scale C.2.3.
Chief Draughtsman—L. E. Gill. Scale C.3.
Draughtsman—W. Chalmers. Scale C.1.
Administrative Assistant—J. B. Kofi Karikari. Scale C.1.2.
Lithographic Printer—S. R. Price. Scale C.1.2.
Lithographic Prover and Vandyker—O. C. Duffy. Scale C.1.

TRANSPORT
Chief Transport Officer—G. F. L. Howarth, E.D.
Engineer Transport Officers—A. Halliday; W. F. Bolton. Scale B.
Accountant—H. E. Marquand. Scale B.
Workshop Foreman—F. J. Coram. Scale C.1.

WATER SUPPLY
Director of Water Supply—J. Lilly. £1,200.
Assistant Director of Water Supply—M. W. Bryce. £1,000.
Engineer—W. J. Searle. Scale A.
Workshop Superintendent—E. G. Mundy.
Foremen of Works—R. Lessels; R. J. G. Edmonston; A. Tappenden; R. S. Pardey; W. Kinnear. Scale C.1.

