SINGAPORE AND ITS DEPENDENCIES

SITUATION AND AREA

Singapore Island is situated off the southern extremity of the Malay Peninsula, to which it is joined by a causeway carrying a road and railway. The straits between the island and mainland are about three-quarters of a mile wide. The island is 26 miles in length, 14 miles in breadth, and 220 square miles in area (including the adjacent islets). The town of Singapore is situated on the southern side of the island, in latitude 1° 17' N., and longitude 103° 50' E.

Christmas Island is situated in the Indian Ocean about 190 nautical miles south of the western extremity of Java, in latitude 10° 30' S., and longitude 105° 40' E. The island, which is densely wooded, has an area of about 60 square miles, and contains extensive deposits of phosphate of lime which are worked and exported.

The Cocos-Keeling Islands, a group of 27 small coral islands about 700 nautical miles south-west of Batavia lie (except for North Keeling Island) between latitude 12° 4' to 12° 13' S., and longitude 96° 49' to 96° 56' E. The largest is five miles long and one-fourth mile wide. Only two, "Home" and "Direction" islands, have important settlements, the latter being inhabited by the staff of Cable and Wireless, which maintains a station there. On West Island there is an air-strip which played an important part in communications during the war with Japan (the Cocos Islands, unlike the rest of the Colony, were never occupied by the Japanese). Home Island houses the labour force for working the large coconut plantations on the islands. The only export is copra.
THE COLONIAL OFFICE LIST

POPULATION OF SINGAPORE ISLAND

| Race       | 1947 Census (Preliminary) | Per cent. | Estimated Population as on 30th June, 1948 | Per cent. |
|------------|---------------------------|-----------|------------------------------------------|-----------|
| Chinese    | 727,863                   | 77·6      | 747,398                                  | 77·7      |
| Malays     | 114,654                   | 12·2      | 117,160                                  | 12·2      |
| Indians    | 71,289                    | 7·6       | 72,067                                   | 7·5       |
| Europeans  | 8,718                     | 0·9       | 9,071                                    | 0·9       |
| Eurasians  | 9,012                     | 1·0       | 9,246                                    | 1·0       |
| Others     | 6,543                     | 0·7       | 6,535                                    | 0·7       |
| **Total**  | **938,079**               | **100·0** | **961,477**                              | **100·0** |

Sex Ratio—There are 827 females for every 1,000 males (Males 526,309, Females 435,168).

RELIGION

The larger Christian communities represented in Singapore are the Church of England, Roman Catholic, Presbyterian and Methodist Churches and the Salvation Army. The Anglican Bishop of Singapore, the Roman Catholic Bishop of Malacca and the Methodist (U.S.) Bishop have their headquarters in Singapore.

A variety of beliefs is found amongst the Chinese population, including Buddhism, Confucianism and Taoism.

The Malays and a minority of the Indians are Muslims, whose religious interests are watched through the Muslim Advisory Board.

The majority of the Indians, being Tamils from South India, are Hindus. They have four principal temples, three controlled by the Mohammedan and Hindu Endowment Board, the fourth by the Chettiar community.

HISTORY

The original city of Singapore (Lion City) is said to have been founded by immigrants from Sumatra. It rose to prominence in the fourteenth century, but was destroyed by the Javanese Majapahit Empire in or before 1377. Thenceforth it was little more than a fishing village with a handful of inhabitants until Sir Stamford Raffles founded a settlement there in 1819 by virtue of a treaty made on the 6th February with the Johore Princes. The Dutch at first strongly resisted this action on the part of the British in an area which they had hitherto regarded as being in their control, but by the Treaty of London signed in 1824, all outstanding territorial differences between the two powers were settled. On 2nd August, 1824 a final treaty was concluded by which the Sultan of Johore ceded the island in full sovereignty and property to the East India Company. Suitable payment was arranged in exchange.

The rise and expansion of the new settlement was phenomenal. By June, 1819, Raffles was able to report that the influx of Chinese, Bugis and Malacca Malays had raised the population to 5,000. In 1824 that number had at least been doubled, and 35,000 tons of shipping used the port. In 1835 the population was 30,000 and the tonnage 200,000. It was already clear that the island was rapidly becoming the principal British port in the Far East and the centre of trade for the area bounded by Sumatra and New Guinea, Java and China; it was trading with India, Siam, Indo-China and the Philippines. The trade figures were £2,610,440 in 1825, £13,252,175 in 1864. The population which at the first census in 1824 numbered 10,683 had risen by 1860 to 81,734 of all nationalities. Singapore had completely overshadowed its sister settlements of Malacca and Penang with which it had been incorporated in 1826 as the Straits Settlements, and it was natural that the seat of government should be transferred from Penang to Singapore in 1832.

The Straits Settlements had been put under the presidency of Bengal in 1830 and transferred to the direct control of the Governor-General in 1851. However, since the abolition of the Company’s monopoly of the China trade in 1834, India was no longer interested in the Straits; moreover, it was difficult to find suitable officials for the territory and protection in war was impossible. On 10th August, 1866, an Act was passed to transfer the control of the Straits Settlements from the Indian Government to the Colonial Office. On 1st April, 1867, the transfer was effected and the Straits Settlements became a Crown Colony.

In the development of the Malayan hinterland Singapore played a primary part and in the resultant prosperity she had her share. It was in Singapore that European processes of tin smelting were introduced in 1887, with the result that in 1939 Singapore smelted more tin than England and Holland combined. It was in Singapore and in Perak that *Hevea Brasiliensis* was successfully cultivated in 1877, and although Singapore grew little rubber itself, it became the chief rubber export centre of the world, and in 1918 out of a total trade of $512,229,753 the value of rubber exported was $153,499,920. Population followed prosperity in a continuous upward curve: a century after Raffles’ landing the population within the municipal limits was estimated at 305,000, and in 1947 preliminary figures from the census enumeration recorded a total population of 938,079, of whom 77·6 per cent. were Chinese.

“Singapore,” Raffles wrote, “will become the Malta of the East”; but though by 1938 the resemblance had become a reality with the completion of a first-class naval base and the construction of an air-base, Singapore differs from Malta in one essential particular, in that it has an extensive hinterland from which it is separated only by a narrow strait. Lacking naval and air support, the fortress succumbed to a Japanese land attack in February, 1942.
For three and a half years Singapore under the alias of Syonan groaned under the heavy heel of the Japanese militarists. On 5th September, 1945, the forces of South East Asia Command under Lord Louis (now Viscount) Mountbatten bloodlessly recovered Singapore, shabby and despoiled, but largely intact, no longer to be one of the Straits Settlements but to constitute the separate Colony of Singapore.

The British Military Administration which followed the liberation and lasted until the last day of March, 1946, was marked by rapid rehabilitation and revival of trade and industry, which gained momentum under the Civil Government restored on 1st April, 1946. An event of historical interest has been the introduction of universal adult suffrage with the coming into force on 18th July, 1947, of the Legislative Council Elections Ordinance. With the foundation of the University of Malaya on 8th October 1949, Singapore will share with the Federation of Malaya the opportunity to bring to fulfillment the last and most cherished of Raffles' visions, of Malaya as the cultural centre of South East Asia.

CONSTITUTION AND ADMINISTRATION

Prior to the loss of Malaya to the Japanese in February, 1942, the Settlement of Singapore, together with the Settlements of Penang and Malacca and Labuan, formed the Colony of the Straits Settlements. On the re-occupation of Malaya, Singapore and the Malay Peninsula were administered by separate branches of British military administration, but on 1st April, 1946, on the re-introduction of civil government, Singapore became a separate Crown Colony by Order in Council, and at the same time the administration of the Settlements of Malacca and Penang was included in the Malayan Union. The Order in Council made further provision for the separation from the Colony of the Settlement of Labuan, which continued under military administration for the time being. The separation took place on 10th July, 1946. Co-ordination between the governments in matters of common interest was ensured by the appointment of a Governor-General. On the departure of Lord Killearn, who had been Special Commissioner for S.E. Asia, his work was amalgamated with that of the Governor-General under the new title of Commissioner-General for S.E. Asia. The new appointment carries on the former advisory and co-ordinating role of the Governor-General. Colonial Office statements and the White Paper (Cmd. 7171) on the Federation of Malaya envisage the possibility of the eventual inclusion of Singapore within the Malayan Federation.

Form of Government

On 1st April, 1948, the first Legislative Council for the Colony of Singapore was sworn in and the period of the Advisory Council which had operated since the return of civil government on 1st April, 1946, came to an end. The first elections had taken place successfully on 20th March with 76 per cent. of the 22,387 registered voters casting their votes. Of the six elected from territorial constituencies by a predominantly Asian electorate, one was an Englishman.

The Legislative Council consists of the Governor as President (with an original and a casting vote); 4 ex-officio members (the Colonial and Financial Secretaries, the Attorney-General, and the President of the Municipal Commissioners); 5 nominated officials; 3 elected severally by the Singapore, Chinese and Indian Chambers of Commerce; 6 elected by universal suffrage of all British subjects and persons born in the British protected States in Malaya and Borneo over 21 on the annually-revised electoral register; and 4 nominated unofficials. The Council thus has an unofficial majority.

The affairs of the Municipal area of 30-96 square miles—chiefly public utilities, public health, roads and sewage disposal—are run by a body of 27 Municipal Commissioners, of which 18 are elected by popular vote and 9 are nominated by the Governor, under a Senior officer of the Malayan Civil Service as President. It raises its own funds from rates.

Justice

The Courts Ordinance (Chapter 10) provides for the following courts for the administration of civil and criminal law:

(a) The Supreme Court;
(b) District Courts;
(c) Police Courts;
(d) Coroners' Courts.

The Court of Criminal Appeal Ordinance (Chapter 11) provides for appeals from convictions in trial at assizes.

The Supreme Court is composed of the Chief Justice and three or more Puisne Judges. It is a court of record, and consists of:

(a) The High Court which exercises original criminal and civil jurisdiction, and appellate criminal and civil jurisdiction in cases tried in district and police courts; and

(b) the Court of Appeal which exercises appellate civil jurisdiction in cases tried in the High Court.

An appeal lies from the Court of Appeal and from the Court of Criminal Appeal by leave to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council.

Criminal trials at assizes are held before a judge sitting with a jury of seven persons.

There are five District Courts in the Colony, one for civil and the others for criminal cases. The civil jurisdiction of a District Court is limited to suits involving not more than $500 when a district judge presides, and not more than $100 when an assistant district judge presides.

There are at present seven police courts in the Colony, the Governor having power to constitute as many police courts as he thinks fit. The jurisdiction of the police courts is regulated by the Criminal Procedure Code (Chapter 21) but certain additional powers and duties are conferred upon them by other ordinances.

There is also a Coroner's Court; a Coroner is appointed by the Governor either for the whole colony or for a district thereof.

The Courts Ordinance provides also for the appointment of Justices of the Peace. Justices of the Peace have no power to try cases.

The criminal procedure of the colony is governed by the Criminal Procedure Code, while civil procedure is governed by rules of court made under the Courts Ordinance.

Civil procedure in the Supreme Court is governed by rules of the Supreme Court, and civil procedure in the District Courts is governed by District Court rules.
SOCIAL SERVICES

Education

The year 1949 opened with an experiment on lines which were entirely new to Singapore schools, the remission of school fees to all first year pupils of the correct age in Government and Government Aided English Schools, and the subsidising by Government of the corresponding pupils in all other registered schools, English and vernacular, to the extent of $2.50 per month. If the scheme works smoothly, it is intended that it should continue for six years of school life: it is thus a very timely temporary substitute for the eventual aim, namely, the provision of universal free primary education.

Other schemes were set afoot. An Advisory Education Committee was established, affording very wide representation, and sub-committees appointed to consider and advise on various aspects including training of teachers, Indian Education, Junior Technical Schools, Adult Education and Illiteracy, and a post school-certificate course. The Committee includes a Finance Board which collects the revenue from an Education Rate and school fees, administers a Government contribution to educational expenditure, fixes the amount of school fees and submits estimates to Government. A survey of the existing position and requirements on a district population basis was completed by the Department of Education. Lessons in English to pupils in Std. III in Malay schools were instituted.

At the end of March 1949 there were 110,313 pupils (75,120 boys, 35,193 girls) enrolled in full-time registered schools; to teach them there were 3,168 teachers, 1,342 of whom were trained. Instruction through the medium of English was given in 22 Government schools, 19 schools receiving full Government grants, and 52 private schools not in receipt of Government aid. Registered Chinese schools, in which Chinese is the medium of instruction, and in which English is taught as a subject, numbered 221. 57 of these, representing approximately 60% of the total enrolment, were aided by Government. Indian schools, 11 of them in receipt of Government aid, numbered 18, and there were 38 Malay free schools maintained entirely by Government. Vocational Education was provided by a Government Junior Technical (Trade) School and a small Trade School run by a Mission and in receipt of a grant from Government. Adult evening classes in a variety of subjects, English, commercial, technical and marine had an enrolment of 3,000 approximately. 481 teachers were under training.

Higher education is provided at Raffles College and the King Edward VII College of Medicine. Legislation incorporating these Colleges into a University of Malaya has been passed by the Legislative Councils of Singapore and Federation of Malaya. The University was formally constituted on 8th October, 1949.

Information Services

The Public Relations Office is a part of the Secretariat organisation under a Public Relations Secretary. He is therefore kept in close touch both with policy and central administration and is in a central position from which to keep in touch with Departments. By personal contacts, Press Conferences and Press Releases the office keeps in close touch with the Press both local and overseas. Singapore remains the Press capital of Malaya, and apart from Reuters, U.P. and A.F., U.K. papers have full-time correspondents based on Singapore. Many foreign correspondents pass through Singapore. The vernacular Press is monitored daily.

In addition the office operates two film units and two public address vans, maintains 30 photo stations and ten poster hoardings, prints in four languages and distributes posters, pamphlets and leaflets, organises exhibitions, lecture courses, and special campaign, e.g. "Safety First".

Department of Broadcasting

This is a pan-Malayan Department which broadcasts in English, Malay, Chinese (8 dialects) and Tamil. At the end of 1948, 21,887 licences had been issued in Singapore. Four transmitters operate in Singapore where the H.Q. is situated. The Department broadcasts regular news bulletins and talks, as well as entertainment in the form of classical, light and dance music and drama. Outside broadcasts are given of events of public sporting interest.

Schools broadcasts are a successfully established part of the programme. They average 11 hours a week with 29 different programmes in English, Malay and Mandarin. At the end of 1948, 36 English, 7 Malay and 36 Chinese schools in Singapore were using the programmes.

British Council

The British Council Centre in Singapore contains the office of the Regional Representative. In Kuala Lumpur there is a Regional Director, and it is hoped that during 1949 a Director will be appointed to Sarawak.

Health

The Government Medical Department provides hospital accommodation totalling 3,400 beds, including the Mental Hospital. Of these, only 1,200 are available for the treatment of acute illness. In addition, for the rural population there are two static dispensaries and three travelling dispensaries. There is a medical school at the King Edward VII College of Medicine where the registrable qualification of L.M.S., Singapore, can be obtained after a full course of training lasting six years. Training is also given for the L.D.S. (Licentiate in Dental Surgery), Diploma of Pharmacy and for the Diploma of the Royal Sanitary Institute.

The year 1948 may be regarded as one in which consolidation was aimed at in regard to the progress which has been made since the re-occupation towards getting back to pre-war standards of efficiency. The health of the population of Singapore continued to remain remarkably satisfactory. For the year 1948 the birth rate was 46·21 per mille, death rate 12·41 per mille, and infant mortality rate 80·79 per mille. The two latter constitute a low record. The outstanding medical achievement of the year was the acceptance of a ten-year Medical Plan by the Legislative Council. The implementation of this plan will put the medical services on a far better footing than ever before. Shortage of trained staff and staff accommodation continued to be the predominating factor affecting the work of the Department. Tuberculosis was the disease causing most concern, but 1948 saw considerable advance in regard to this disease through Government adoption of a clear cut Tuberculosis Policy scheme. Much preventive work continued to be
done in regard to anti-malarial control and port health work, both sea and air. The value of the established quarantine procedure to a city situated as is Singapore continued to be demonstrated. The work of the school medical service was further expanded and a start was made in establishing a school dental service for the first time in the history of Singapore.

Maternity and child welfare centres are established in various parts of the island, and weekly clinics are also held in adapted buildings. The local population has fully realised the value of this service, and has offered to collect funds to build three new centres. Over 80,000 attendances by children are recorded in a year.

Another important service in this direction is the free distribution of dried milk to expectant and nursing mothers and to children up to the age of four.

Indications are that in general the nutritional status of the people in the Colony improved in 1948.

Full information regarding health medical work is to be found in the 1948 Annual Report of the Colony's Medical Department.

Labour

Singapore differs from many other Colonial territories in that the island is not a primary producing area. Its many industries are engaged chiefly in processing and using for manufacture a wide variety of raw materials obtained from abroad.

Over 3,000 places of employment are known to the Labour Department, and in these places nearly 80,000 labourers are at work. In addition, nearly 40,000 are employed by Government, Singapore Harbour Board, the Municipality and by the three Services. There are more than 100 varieties of industry represented in those places of employment and necessarily a great many more varieties of occupation.

Chief amongst them may be mentioned industries connected with rubber:—smoking, milling, packing for export and manufacture of rubber goods in which more than 8,000 persons, male and female, are employed. The building trade provides work for about the same number; followed by metal industries which include engineering, tin smelting, pipe manufacturing, etc., with 5,500 labourers; food, drink and tobacco undertakings with about 5,000; and the chemical industry, including paint, oil and petroleum products, with 4,500.

Nearly 2,000 persons are employed on stevedoring and approximately the same number in lighterage, apart from those in the Singapore Harbour Board.

Wages in commercial undertakings remained constant during the earlier part of 1948. Employers were strongly warned against taking advantage of the Emergency which was declared in June, 1948, but by the end of the year, economic conditions justified some reduction from the high rates which had been reached during the post-war period.

The output of the individual in Singapore is still below that of workmen in a similar position in England. This is partly due to the climate, but more especially to the lack of mechanisation—a fact now forced upon the employers' notice by high labour costs.

The normal working day is 8 hours, though a maximum of 9 is still permitted by law; six days' work per week is the practice in many of the larger establishments though labourers working on piece rates, especially the Chinese, prefer to work and to rest as they may choose. The Weekly Holidays Ordinance ensures that shops close on one day during the week, and that shop assistants shall receive a weekly holiday.

Extra rates are paid for overtime work, usually one and a half times the ordinary rate, rising to double rates if prolonged. Work done on Sunday or holidays is often paid for at double rates.

When industrial disputes occur or are threatened, the Labour Department makes every effort to promote conciliatory discussions between the parties and to arrange a settlement between the two sides. There are, in fact, very few disputes in which an officer of the Labour Department does not act as mediator.

Machinery exists for the settlement of disputes by legally established Arbitration Boards, or by Industrial Courts if the parties so wish. Submission of a dispute to either of these bodies must be by mutual consent of both parties and only if direct negotiations are unsuccessful. No compulsory powers exist for the settlement of any trade dispute, nor are they thought desirable. During 1948 only one dispute was referred to an Arbitration Board, which consisted of an independent chairman, and one nominee each of the labourers and the employer. The dispute concerned the change of employment of lighter crews from a monthly to a daily casual basis. An award was issued, but though the Union professed satisfaction, the labourers found another excuse for striking and were subsequently paid off.

The declaration of the Emergency in June led to the disappearance of many of the leaders of Communist-dominated trade unions. This meant that many disputes were settled peacefully which formerly would have led to strikes. At the same time there is no doubt that fear of action under the Emergency Regulations prevented more active protest against retrenchments and wage reductions. To guard against the danger that employers might take advantage of the situation to force down wages, repeated assurances were given that genuine trade unions need have no fears and in several cases employers were persuaded to postpone wage reductions. The result has been the re-organisation of several unions, and an increasing tendency for the genuine unions to negotiate reasonably for a fair settlement.

The office of the Registrar of Trade Unions forms part of the Labour Department. As a result of the Emergency, many leaders of Communist-dominated unions went underground. No action was taken against such unions merely on account of the action of individual officers or members. In many cases however, the union itself disappeared, and where neither responsible officials nor members would come forward to re-organise it, registration was cancelled after the requisite notice had been given. Ten such unions were dissolved during 1948, 9 other unions were dissolved at their own request, leaving at the end of the year 118 employees' unions, 36 employers' unions and 2 federations.

Many other functions are undertaken by the Labour Department; among those not already referred to, the following may be mentioned:—advice to employers, employees, Government and
Government Departments on all labour matters; enforcement of the proper observance of the Labour Ordinance, certain parts of the Children's Ordinance and the Machinery Ordinance by inspection of factories and places of employment; the settlement of claims under the Workmen's Compensation Ordinance or the representation of labourers before the Commissioner for Workmen's Compensation; enquiry into and adjudication of wage claims; the operation of the Indian Immigration Fund; the repatriation of Indians and the payment to them of gratuities and other monies; the operation of a Labour Exchange; collection of statistics; the organisation of industrial canteens and the distribution of supplementary rations to certain categories of workers; and the preparation of reports on these matters as required.

During 1948, an officer of the Department represented Singapore at the I.L.O. Conference on Labour and Inspection Services held at Kandy in November.

In the field of legislation, work is still proceeding on the new Labour Ordinance and some amendments to facilitate smoother administration were made to the Trade Union Ordinance. An amendment was also made to the Trade Disputes Ordinance providing greater immunity for Trade Unionists against charges of conspiracy. The 1947 amendment to the Workmen's Compensation Ordinance, bringing labourers' earning up to $400 per month within its scope, was extended for another year. Under the Emergency Regulations the Registrar of Trade Unions was given power to "freeze" trade union funds if the responsible officials had disappeared, and the strikes and lockout regulations provided for the giving of notice before a strike or lockout could be called. Under the Merchant Shipping Ordinance, a Seamen's Registration Bureau has been set up. A Weekly Holidays Ordinance, which makes compulsory the closing of shops on one day of the week and the granting of a weekly holiday to shop, restaurant and theatre assistants, has been introduced in the Legislative Council.

The Labour Advisory Board held 14 meetings during the year. The Board is under the Chairmanship of the Commissioner for Labour. Its terms of reference are "To consider and make recommendations on any aspect of labour, and any matters concerning labour which may seem proper to it or which may be referred to it". During the year, membership was increased from 9 to 12, four members each being nominated on behalf of Government, employers and workers.

Welfare

The Development of the Department of Social Welfare is perhaps one of the most outstanding features of post-war Singapore. Formed in June, 1946, this Department was inevitably preoccupied in its earliest days with relieving the confusion and distress which prevailed as a result of the Japanese occupation. Since that time it has shed many of these emergency activities and is now becoming the permanent instrument of progressive social policy in the Colony.

Its function is to carry out statutory and administrative functions in the social field which are not provided by existing Government departments and which are characterised by the fact that they should be equally available to, or obligatory upon, all citizens, the rest of the welfare field is left open to the Colony's numerous and well organised voluntary agencies, with whom the Department works in close partnership, entering the field only to operate such residual institutions or services as are not, or cannot conveniently be, established and maintained by voluntary effort alone.

The Department acts as a co-ordinating agency between the various voluntary bodies as well as those Departments of Government whose activities impinge upon the field of social welfare. The medium by which this is carried out is the Social Welfare Council, consisting of representatives of the most prominent voluntary bodies including the churches, as well as heads of the Departments of Education, Medicine, Labour and Co-operation, and representatives of the Municipal Commission and the Rural Board. Government grants to voluntary bodies are administered by the Department.

The Department is the body which exercises statutory functions under the Women and Girl's Ordinance and the Children's Ordinance. In this it co-operates with the Police, the Immigration Department, and the Medical Department, carrying out raids on notorious premises, screening all female immigrants, conducting prosecutions and maintaining a large number of women and children in need of care and protection in three institutions as well as inspecting similar institutions run by voluntary bodies.

New comprehensive legislation drafted by the Department setting up a juvenile court, a juvenile probation system and approved schools and homes, as well as providing for the care and protection of children, rules for their employment and the regulations for the registration of children transferred out of the custody of their parents, came into force during 1949.

The juvenile court is now functioning and local probation officers are being trained by a Probation Adviser seconded from the United Kingdom. An approved school is operating on the most up-to-date lines.

The Department administers a system of public assistance, financed from Government funds, and this is supplemented by assistance from several public funds, in respect of which the Department acts as the investigating and distributing agency. A separate system of T.B. treatment allowances was introduced during 1949. The Department also provides indoor relief for helpless and homeless people. Its Five-Year Plan provides for the progressive improvement of these social assistance facilities and for consideration of the possibility of introducing contributory schemes for certain categories.

An advice and enquiry service is in existence helping individuals in such matters as making claims, settling disputes and tracing relatives.

The Department administers a free feeding scheme for children suffering from malnutrition. 19 centres called Children's Social Centres, were in operation during 1949 and the policy is gradually to shift the emphasis from the purely feeding aspect of these Centres to the social and educational potentialities which they have been shown to possess in over-crowded areas where schooling, club and community facilities are not yet available to the whole population. These Centres owe their success largely to a body of voluntary lady workers, representative of all the races in Singapore.

The Department seeks to stimulate the establishment of boys' and girls' clubs and hostels, and where possible to run such institutions through the
agency of voluntary bodies, the Department providing funds and advice when required. In this work the Department collaborates with the Singapore Youth Council and the Federation of Boys' Clubs, both independent organisations.

A course for Probation Officers which followed on the courses previously organised on the general principles of social welfare and a special course in social survey technique, were organised by the Department during 1949. Training courses for youth leaders are being arranged.

The Department has published a Social Survey of Singapore which for the first time has given statistical precision to certain aspects of social conditions in the Municipality of Singapore. The Survey is to be used as a starting point for research into such conditions which will be not only of general interest, but of particular value in enabling the Department to plan its work intelligently and economically on a basis of ascertained fact.

COMMUNICATIONS

Railways

The railway system serves Singapore and the Federation of Malaya. From Singapore Island the railway crosses to the mainland by the Johore Causeway. The main line then runs roughly parallel to the west coast of the Malayan Peninsula, but at some distance inland to Prai on the west coast opposite the Island of Penang. This main west coast line is 488 miles long. From Bukit Mertajam (5 miles south of Prai), a line branches off the main line and continues in a northerly direction to the Siamese frontier at Padang Besar, the junction with the Royal State Railways of Siam, 99 miles from Bukit Mertajam. Lines branch from the main line to serve railway-operated ports at Port Dickson, Port Swettenham, Teluk Anson and Port Weld. A branch line, 22 miles long, which connected the port of Malacca with the main line, was removed by the Japanese during their 3½ years of occupation, and has not yet been replaced.

The East Coast Line branches from the main line at Gemas, 137 miles from Singapore, and runs in a northerly direction through the States of Negri Sembilan, Pahang and Kelantan, and terminates at the port of Tumpat on the east coast close to the Siamese border. The distance from Gemas to Tumpat is 327 miles. At Pasir Mas, 16 miles south of Tumpat, a branch line 13 miles long runs west to connect with the Royal State Railways of Siam at the border station of Sungei Golok.

The Japanese removed a length of 200 miles of the East Coast Line between Mentakab (Pahang) and Krai (Kelantan). The restoration work on the 17 miles between Sungei Kusial and Krai was completed and the section was opened for traffic on 8th September, 1948. This work included the restoration of the Guillemand and Sungei Nal bridges. The relaying operations northwards from Mentakab were continued with the specially constructed track-laying train, using prefabricated track. On 15th April, 1948, the section from Mentakab to Kuala Krau was completed and on 3rd November, 1948, the section from Mentakab to Jerantut was completed. The distance from Mentakab to Jerantut is 32 miles. Relaying northwards from Jerantut has been suspended temporarily.

A through service is run once a week between Prai and Bankgok, the Siamese capital. A twice weekly service is also maintained between Prai and Tumpat in Kelantan via the Siamese Southern Line Padang Besar-Sungei Golok, but this service has been temporarily suspended in view of the present state of emergency in Malaya.

Buffet cars and sleeping saloons are provided on the night mail trains between Prai and Singapore, and one air conditioned buffet car is attached to the Kuala Lumpur-Prai day mail on alternate days.

First class fares are at the rate of 12½ cents per mile.

Shipping

Singapore Harbour is practically land-locked. Its port limits cover an area of 36½ square miles, consisting of the inner harbour protected from the north-east monsoon by a mile-long granite rubble mole, the outer harbour and the western anchorage. Responsibility for the piloting, buoying and lighting of the port lie with the Government through the Master Attendant. There are efficient lighterage services to ships in the harbour.

Public wharves and dry docks which cover over 690 acres are controlled by the Singapore Harbour Board appointed by the Government. By-laws and rules and charges are made by the Board subject to the approval of the Governor-in-Council.

Shipping and Port Facilities

During the year 1948 the volume of cargo handled over the Harbour Board wharves was 2,745,818 tons, excluding fuel and diesel oil. This tonnage was the highest on record for any year of peace. The approximate number of ships handled by the Singapore Harbour Board in the year 1948 was 2,317 and their approximate nett tonnage was 6,086,453. These figures do not include harbour craft or lighters. There were no delays to shipping waiting for berths during the year. In spite of continued difficulties in obtaining materials, restoration of war-damage continued and approximately 120,000 square feet of warehouse accommodation were added to the port's facilities.

During the year one new Latex installation, having a capacity of 192,000 gallons, was added to the port's facilities and a further tank for the storage of palm oil awaiting shipment was constructed.

The Singapore Harbour Board's Dockyards were active throughout the year, but hull repairs could not, on occasions, be undertaken owing to a shortage of suitable steel. In some cases this inability to perform repairs resulted in a loss of foreign currency earnings. The reconditioning of all caissons of the five dry docks was completed during the year and the facilities of the dockyards were increased by the arrival of several items of modern machinery. The Electrical Department of the Singapore Harbour Board was very fully engaged on installations and repairs carried out on many vessels of all classes. Repairs of electrical plant included repairs to two modern marine electrical propulsion equipments, both in American ships. A section for the repair of precision instruments was added to the department during the year, and undertook a good volume of work in the service of marine gyro-compass and pilot equipment for vessels of various nationalities.

In March, 1948, a mechanical floating coal hoist was brought into use for bunkering vessels.
Perhaps the most important development during the year was the progress made in reforming the Board's wharf and stevedore labour forces. Prior to 1948 this labour had been engaged through labour contractors. In February, the contract system was abandoned, not without difficulty, and the Harbour Board commenced to employ the labour direct. The change-over was accomplished smoothly and was followed by the introduction of a decasualisation scheme. Towards the end of the year a programme for accelerating the introduction of mechanical cargo-handling equipment was commenced, and speed of turnaround of ships reached a higher level than any attained since before the outbreak of war.

The Buoyage and Lights controlled by the Marine Department of the Colony are now fully re-established and a Marine Department launch has been fitted for providing a wireless direction-finding calibration service for the checking of ships' finding gear.

Air

Singapore has two major airfields: Kallang (Runway 1,780 yards) and Tengah (Runway 2,000 yards). Kallang is operated by the Pan-Malayan Department of Civil Aviation; Tengah is operated by the Royal Air Force. Tengah is, however, used by civil airlines for their heavier aircraft, and it is proposed to reconstruct it as a Joint User International Airport in the near future.

The following airlines operate through and from Singapore:

Malayan Airways, Ltd. operate internal air services throughout Malaya providing a link with Kuala Lumpur, Ipoh, Taiping, Penang, Kota Bharu and Kuantan. This Company also maintains services with Saigon, Bangkok, Batavia, and Palembang, and points in Sarawak and North Borneo.

B.O.A.C./Qantas trunk route from U.K. to Australia operates a Constellation service thrice weekly and an express Lancastrian Service mainly for the transportation of air freight. The Hythe Flying Boat service has been withdrawn. B.O.A.C. operate Canadair aircraft between Singapore and Hong Kong as part of their Far Eastern Trunk service, and a Lancastrian service to Ceylon.

The K.L.M. line from Amsterdam to Batavia operate with Constellations. K.L.M. also link Singapore with Indonesian territory. Cathay Pacific Airways operate a twice weekly service between Hong Kong and Singapore via Bangkok. P.O.A.S. and Siamese Airways operate services between Bangkok and Singapore. In the near future, Indian Overseas Airlines will be operating a service from Bombay to Singapore via Calcutta.

Air travel facilities to China and Japan are provided by B.O.A.C. via Hong Kong.

Postal Services

The Postal Services Department of the Colony of Singapore under the Director of Posts, Singapore, forms part of the Postal Administration of Malaya administered by the Postmaster-General, Malaya, with headquarters at Kuala Lumpur.

All types of postal business are conducted at the General Post Office and at 18 other Post Offices on the island. The Post Office Savings Bank operates at all these offices and the amount of deposits is steadily increasing. Deliveries by postmen are made to all parts of the island and at the General Post Office there are also private boxes and a window delivery service.

The outlets for surface mails are gradually improving both in frequency and reliability and the average time of transit from Singapore to England is 26 days. Air mail services to all parts of the world are available, and a reliable internal air service also operates daily.

Telecommunications

The Telecommunications Department of the Colony of Singapore under the Director of Telecommunications, Singapore, forms part of the Pan Malayan Telecommunications Department of Malaya, administered by the Director-General of Telecommunications, Malaya, with headquarters at Kuala Lumpur.

The public telephone system is owned and operated by the Oriental Telephone and Electric Company, and has connections to the Malayan Trunking System through three channel telephone carrier systems.

Phonogram services are available on Singapore Island with direct telegraph and public teleprinter services to Kuala Lumpur, Ipoh and Penang, utilising voice frequency telegraph equipment. External radio telegraph services are maintained with Jesselton, Brunei, Kuching, Christmas Island and Bangkok. World wide cable facilities are available through Messrs. Cable & Wireless, Ltd. The Telecommunications Department is responsible for the operation and provision of aeradio telecommunication services for the Department of Civil Aviation and meteorological telecommunication services for the Department of Malayan Meteorological Services. A radio telegraph service with ships on high and medium frequencies is provided together with a short range ship to shore radio telephone service for small coastal craft. A two channel single side band service is being provided between Singapore and the United Kingdom, one channel for a radio telephone link and the other for high quality "Voice of Britain" transmissions for the Far Eastern Broadcasting Service.

Public Finance

Public Revenue in 1948 was $73,746,016 and expenditure was $92,492,455. The revised estimate of revenue for 1949 is $109,051,943 and the revised estimate of expenditure is £101,326,627.

The chief sources of revenue in the approved estimates of 1948 were as follows:

| Source                  | Amount     |
|-------------------------|------------|
| Income Tax              | $2,773,923 |
| Tax on liquors          | $11,987,073|
| Petrol Tax              | $9,309,547 |
| Tobacco Duties          | $21,474,102|
| Entertainment Duties    | $2,976,459 |

Singapore is a free port. There are therefore no tariffs, except from the duties on spirits, tobacco and petrol.

The chief items of expenditure in the 1948 estimate were as follows:

| Item                      | Amount     |
|---------------------------|------------|
| Public Debt Expenditure   | $8,092,350 |
| Civil Aviation            | $858,352   |
| Education                 | $2,831,324 |
| Medical                   | $7,445,749 |
| Military                  | $135,975   |
| Police                    | $7,306,193 |
| Public Works              | $6,219,067 |
| Social Welfare            | $974,525   |
CURRENCY AND BANKING

The monetary unit is the Malayan dollar, the value of which was fixed at 2s. 4d. (Sterling) on 29th January, 1906. The currency notes are fully covered by a Currency Fund which consists of sterling in liquid form and sterling securities.

The following banks operate in Singapore, and form the Malayan Exchange Banks Association:

- The Chartered Bank of India, Australia and China; Incorporated in London.
- The Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corporation; Incorporated in Hongkong.
- The Mercantile Bank of India, Ltd.; Incorporated in (London) England.
- The Eastern Bank, Ltd.; Incorporated in London.
- The National City Bank of New York; Incorporated in New York.
- Netherlands Trading Society; Incorporated in Amsterdam, Holland.
- Netherlands India Commercial Bank; Incorporated in Amsterdam, Holland.
- Banque de L'Indochine; Incorporated in Paris, France.
- The Indian Overseas Bank, Ltd; Incorporated in Madras, India.
- Overseas-Chinese Banking Corporation, Ltd., Incorporated in Singapore.
- Bank of China; Incorporated in Peking, China in 1911; Rechartered in 1935, present Head Office in Canton from 26 April, 1949.
- The United Chinese Bank, Ltd.; Incorporated in Singapore.
- Sze Hai Tong Banking & Insurance Co., Ltd.; Incorporated in Singapore.
- The Lee Wah Bank, Ltd.; Incorporated in Singapore.
- Ban Hin Lee Bank, Ltd.; Incorporated in Penang.
- The Kwangtung Provincial Bank; Incorporated in Canton, China.
- The Indian Bank Ltd.; Incorporated in Madras, India.
- The Overseas Union Bank, Ltd.; Incorporated in Singapore.

Non-Member Bank

The Kwong Lee Banking Company.

EXTERNAL TRADE

In 1948 Singapore's imports reached the value of $1,294,898,341 (72·5 per cent. of the Pan-Malayan figure). The exports reached the value of $1,107,239,235 (64·2 per cent. of the Pan-Malayan figure). The total value was therefore $2,402,137,776 (68·4 per cent. of the Pan-Malayan figure). These figures represent merchandise and exclude parcel post, bullion and coin. In 1939, Singapore percentage of the total Malayan foreign trade in merchandise was approximately 67 per cent. for imports and 55 per cent. for exports.

The percentage of trade for 1948 was as follows:

| Imports | Exports | Total |
|---------|---------|-------|
| Per cent.| Per cent.| Per cent. |
| U.K. ... | 15·9    | 11·9   | 14·0 |
| Other British countries | 22·1 | 21·9 | 22·0 |
| U.S.A. ... | 14·1 | 20·5 | 17·1 |
| China ... | 7·2 | 1·3 | 4·5 |
| N.E.I. ... | 22·5 | 15·9 | 19·5 |
| Others ... | 18·2 | 28·5 | 22·9 |

N.B.—Source of information: Malayan Statistics, 1948, Summary A.

LIST OF GOVERNORS OF THE STRAITS SETTLEMENTS AND HIGH COMMISSIONERS FOR THE MALAY STATES

1894 Lt.-Col. Sir Charles Bullen Hugh Mitchell, G.C.M.G.
1901 Sir Frank Athelstane Swettenham, G.C.M.G.
1904 Sir John Anderson, G.C.M.G.
1911 Sir Arthur Henderson Young, G.C.M.G., K.B.E.
1920 Sir Laurence Nunn Guillemard, G.C.M.G., K.C.B.
1927 Sir Hugh Charles Clifford, G.C.M.G., G.B.E.
1930 Sir Cecil Clementi, G.C.M.G.
1934–46 Sir Shenton Thomas, G.C.M.G., O.B.E.

GOVERNOR OF SINGAPORE

1946 Sir Franklin Charles Gimson, K.C.M.G.

EXECUTIVE COUNCIL

Ex-officio Members

H.E. The Governor—Chairman.
The Colonial Secretary.
The Attorney-General.
The Financial Secretary.
The President, Municipal Commissioners.

Official Members

Maj.-Gen. D. Dunlop (G.O.C., Singapore District).
A. Gilmour (Secretary for Economic Affairs).

Unofficial Members

Sir Roland Braddell.
A. McLellan, J.P.
Tan Chin Tuan, J.P.
M. J. Namazie.

LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL

H.E. The Governor—President.
The Colonial Secretary.
The Attorney-General.
The Financial Secretary.
The President, Municipal Commissioners.

Ex-officio Members.

A. Gilmour (Secretary for Economic Affairs).
J. A. Harvey (Commissioner of Lands).
Dr. W. J. Vickers (Director of Medical Services).
T. P. F. McNeice, O.B.E. (Secretary for Social Welfare).
A. W. Frisby (Director of Education).
H. B. Roper-Calbeck, J.P. (Member for the Singapore Chamber of Commerce).
Tan Chin Tuan, J.P. (Member for the Chinese Chamber of Commerce).
R. Jumabhoy (Member for the Indian Chamber of Commerce).
M. J. Namazie (First Member for Municipality North-East).
John Laycock, M.C. (Second Member for Municipality North-East).
C. C. Tan (First Member for Municipality South-West).
Che Sardon b. H. Jubir (Member for Rural East).
Balwant Singh (Member for Rural West).
Thio Chan Bee, J.P.
A. McLellan, J.P.
P. F. de Souza.
Lim Yew Hock.

FOREIGN CONSULAR OFFICERS

Belgium—A. Graff (Consul).
China—Dr. Wu Paak-Shing (Consul-General).
Denmark—K. G. Lommer (Acting Consul).
Netherlands—A. M. L. Winkelman (Consul-General).
Norway—R. W. Hooper (Consul).
Portugal—Dr. J. M. Salcedas (Consul).
Sweden—P. H. Hopkins (Honorary Consul).
Switzerland—G. A. Falquier (Vice Consul).
Siam—Luang Ratanadib (Consul-General).
France—A. Guibaut (Consul-General).
United States of America—William R. Langdon (Consul-General).
Uruguay—L. D. Dymond (Honorary Vice Consul).

SHORT SELECT BIBLIOGRAPHY

One Hundred Years of Singapore (two volumes), general editors : W. Makepeace, G. E. Brooke, R. St. J. Braddell. Murray, 1921, 42s.

One Hundred Years' History of the Chinese, by Song Ong Siang. Murray, 1923, 36s.

British Malaya—A Report on the 1931 Census, by C. A. Vlieland. Crown Agents for the Colonies, 1932, 12s.

The Lights of Singapore, by R. Braddell. Methuen, 1934, 1s. 6d.

A Dictionary of the Economic Products of the Malay Peninsula (two volumes), by I. H. Burkhill. Crown Agents for the Colonies, 1935, 30s.

A History of Malaya, by Sir Richard Winstedt. Luzac, 1935, 8s. 6d.

British Rule in Eastern Asia: A study of contemporary government and economic development in British Malaya and Hong Kong, by L. A. Mills, O.U.P., 1942, 25s.

Raffles of Singapore, by R. Coupland. Collins, 1946, 1s. 6d.

A Social Survey of Singapore, by the Singapore Department of Social Welfare, 1948, 3s.

The War in Malaya, by A. E. Percival. Eyre & Spottiswoode, 1949, 16s.

CIVIL ESTABLISHMENT

Notes.—All salaries are quoted in Straits dollars p.m., which may be converted to £p.a. by multiplying by 7/5.

Scale A is as follows:

| Scale | Basic Salary | Expatriation Pay |
|-------|--------------|------------------|
| A.1   | $350         | $400             |
| A.2   | $510         | $730             |

Scale B is as follows:

| Scale | Basic Salary | Expatriation Pay |
|-------|--------------|------------------|
| B.1   | $370         | $400             |
| B.2   | $430         | $720             |
| B.3   | $460         | $900             |
| B.4   | $520         |                  |

Scale C is as follows:

| Scale | Basic Salary | Expatriation Pay |
|-------|--------------|------------------|
| C.1   | $325         | $425             |
| C.2   | $450         | $650             |
| C.3   |              | $825             |

To the basic salaries, quoted above, expatriation pay, which is pensionable, is added in the case of expatriate officers according to the following table:

| Basic Salary | Rent | Allowance |
|--------------|------|-----------|
| $1,200 p.m. and over | 60 p.m. | $100 p.m. |
| $900–$1,200 p.m. | 45 p.m. | $100 p.m. |
| $700–$900 p.m. | 30–35 p.m. | $100 p.m. |
| $400–$700 p.m. | 20 p.m. | $80 p.m. |
| $320–$400 p.m. | 15 p.m. | $80 p.m. |
| $250–$320 p.m. | 12 p.m. | $40 p.m. |
| $180–$250 p.m. | 9 p.m. | $30 p.m. |
| $130–$180 p.m. | 7 p.m. | $30 p.m. |
| $100–$130 p.m. | 5 p.m. | $16 p.m. |
| Under $100 p.m. | 3 p.m. | $6 p.m. |

A variable cost of living allowance, which is not pensionable, is at present payable,

(a) at the rate of 50 per cent. of basic salary up to a maximum of

(i) $150 p.m. for single officers,
(ii) $300 p.m. for married officers,
(iii) $375 p.m. for married officers with children, plus

(b) at the rate of 10 per cent. of basic salary Singapore allowance, up to a maximum of $50 p.m. for all classes of officer.

The salaries quoted below are in every case basic, excluding expatriation pay and allowances.

* Indicates appointment on contract.
** Indicates that an element for Expatriation Pay is included in salary.

GOVERNOR AND PERSONAL STAFF

Governor—Sir Franklin C. Gimson, K.C.M.G. £4,000, plus £2,500 allowance.

Private Secretary—R. M. Marsh.

Aide-de-Camp—P. Heslop.

ADMINISTRATION

Secretariat

Colonial Secretary—Sir P. A. B. McKerron, K.B.E., C.M.G. £1,700.

Financial Secretary—J. D. M. Smith, C.M.G. £1,450.

Secretary for Economic Affairs—A. Gilmour, C.M.G. £1,350.

Under Secretary—J. D. Hodgkinson (acting). £1,200.

Principal Assistant Secretary—K. C. Tours (acting). £1,050.

Deputy Financial Secretary—J. E. Pepper. £1,050.

Deputy Financial Secretary (Reconstruction)—E. A. Joy (acting). £1,050.

Deputy Secretaries for Economic Affairs—H. W. Nightingale (acting); T. Van der Gaast (acting). £1,050.

Assistant Secretaries—D. C. Horton; V. E. Dawson; M. C. Compton; G. E. Bogaars; P. C. Bolshaw; A. H. Robson; L. W. Donough; J. L. M. Gorrie; G. H. D. Blount*; A. W. Coles*; Mrs. M. J. Gibbs*. Scale A.1.

Staff, Grade A—W. L. Blythe; A. Gilmour, C.M.G. £1,350.

Class IA—Vacant. £1,200.

Class IB—J. A. Harvey; T. P. F. McNeice, O.B.E.; E. C. S. Adkins; J. E. Pepper. £1,050.

Class II—A. D. York; J. B. Hodgkinson; G. W. Davis; T. E. Hughes; K. C. Tours; H. W. Nightingale; C. W. Lyle; D. C. Horton, D.S.C.; R. M. Marsh; K. M. Byrne; L. C. Goh; Hon. Sui Sen; V. E. Dawson; T. Van der Gaast; M. C. Compton; C. R. D. Danby; P. S. Bolshaw; W. I. Galletly; A. H. Robson; D. A. Fyfe; R. J. C. Wait; D. P. Rees; W. Fox; E. S. de Banzie; J. L. M. Gorrie. Scale A.1.

Officers, provided by Government with furnished quarters are charged rent; but, if not provided with quarters, are paid an allowance according to the following table:—
Under Contract—N. Bradbury; F. D. Colebourn, T. D.; G. H. D. Blount; D. A. Stephen; R. Rendel; R. B. I. Pates; A. E. Norrish; C. G. Dickens; S. G. Burlock; A. Baker; J. Wilson; J. Buckoke; A. W. Lamond; I. R. M. Willis; E. F. Middleditch; Mrs. M. J. Gibbs.

AGRICULTURE
Agriculture Officer—M. R. Henderson (acting). Scale B.3.

AUDIT
Deputy Director of Audit—E. H. C. Lillicrup. $1,000.
Senior Auditor—W. H. Williams. $860–30–950.
Auditors—P. R. Bridge; C. W. Collings. Scale C.1.

BROADCASTING
Director of Broadcasting, Malaya—J. S. Dumeresque. $1,050.
Deputy Director of Broadcasting (Schools)—F. N. Lloyd Williams. $930.
Director of Engineering—G. S Miller (acting). $930.
Engineers—L. F. Lambert; E. Credgington; M. M. Freeland; J. M. Anderson; N. J. A. Frigout. Scale B.3.
Programme Director—P. C. Thornton. Scale B.1.
English Programme Supervisor—R. V. F. Nancarrow. Scale B.1.
Programme Assistants—A. T. Road; Mrs. W. H. Lloyd Williams*; D. J. Lyttle; R. S. Wild; T. Wood; R. M. Connery; G. M. Cullen; I. G. K. Henderson. Scale B.1.
Junior Programme Assistants—Miss E. M. Morris*; Miss I. Stockwell*. $320–25–545/B/570–25–720.
Chief Editor—Vacant. Scale B.1.
Assistant Editor—A. A. Josey*. Scale B.1.
Sub Editor—K. W. Sutton*. $320–25–545/B/570–25–720.
Chief Administrative Officer—J. M. D. Colebourn*. Scale C.1.
Deputy Chief Administrative Officer—J. Wilkinson*. Scale C.1.
Record Librarian—Victor Grosz. $400–25–800.
Research Librarian—Mrs. W. M. O’dell*. $320–25–545/B/570–25–720.

CHEMISTRY
Director of Chemistry, Malaya—M. Jamieson. $1,100.
Chief Chemist—A. W. Burtt. $930/960/1,000.
Chemist—A. I. Biggs. Scale B.3.

CHINESE SECRETARIAT
Secretary for Chinese Affairs—E. C. S. Adkins. $1,050.
Assistant Secretary for Chinese Affairs—Stewart. Scale A.1.

CIVIL AVIATION
Director of Civil Aviation, Malaya—Vacant. $1,200.
Chief Engineer and Licensing Officer—Vacant. $930.
Chief Operations Officer—H. I. Wetherell (acting). $930.
Operations Officer—Vacant. Scale C.1.
Administrative Officer—N. Bradbury*. Scale C.1.
Engineer and Licensing Officer—L. W. A. Osborne. Scale C.1.
Technical Officer—Vacant. Scale C.1.
Senior Signals Officer—Vacant. Scale C.1.
Air Traffic Control Officers, Grade I—F. E. N. Wills; R. L. Milton; F. H. Pollock; D. A. Noden; E. E. Neilson; L. Holliday; T. H. Hendra. Scale C.1.
Airport Manager—E. A. Healy*. Scale C.1.
Staff Pilot—R. A. B. Learoyd*. $800.

COLONIAL SECRETARIAT
Organisation Secretary—Vacant. $1,050.
Secretary for Defence—G. Hawkins*, O.B.E. $1,200.
Secretary for Internal Affairs—J. C. Barry (acting). $1,050.
Assistant to the Principal Assistant Secretary, Secretariat—H. M. Danker (acting). $320–20–400/B/430–20–510/B/540–20–600/B/625–25–800.
Assistant Secretary i/c Confidential Branch, Secretariat—G. E. Bogaars, O.B.E. $600–30–750.
Public Relation Secretary—L. C. Goh (acting). $900.
Supervisor of Elections—Lee Siow Mong (acting). $625–25–800.
Assistant Secretary for Economic Affairs—A. W. Coles*. Scale C.1.
Assistant Secretary for Economic Affairs (Liaison with Indonesia)—Vacant. Scale C.1.
Private Secretary, Economic Affairs Dept.—A. V. Cordeiro (acting). $320–20–400/B/430–20–510/B/540–20–600/B/625–25–800.

CUSTOMS
Comptroller of Customs—H. S. J. Lloyd. $1,050.
Assistant Comptrollers of Customs—J. S. A. Lewis; G. J. G. Pitt (acting). $860–30–950.
Senior Customs Officers and Customs Officers—M. B.* C. Frend; F. S. Rickard; G. J. G. Pitt; K. S. Hellrich; W. F. Mavor; J. F. M. Roualle; H. G. D. Lewin; W. A. Rodick; E. J. Selby; L. J. B. Johnson; D. A. Maby; J. V. Lane; S. R. L. W. Bell; M. Killick; D. I. Mackay; W. A. Bradley.

EDUCATION
Director of Education—A. W. Frisby. $1,150.
Deputy Director of Education—R. M. Young. $1,000.
Principal Teachers’ Training College—J. D. Joseph, M.B.E. (acting). $1,000.
Assistant Director of Education—R. W. Watson-Hyatt (acting). $930.
Superintendent of Physical Education—E. Strickland. Scale B.2.
Inspectors of Schools—P. S. Dempsey; A. Halliday. Scale B.2.
Group Supervisor—E. H. Price. Scale B.2.
Supervisor of Private Schools—Low Ngiong Ing. Scale B.2.
Assistant Supervisor of Private Schools—Vacant. Scale B.2.
Inspector of Chinese Schools—Li Chi Wa. Scale B.2.
Assistant Director of Education Girls’ Schools—Vacant. $800.
Primary Supervisor (woman)—Mrs. D. F. Atherton. $370–25–545/B/570–25–720.
Principal, Raffles Institution—E. H. Wilson. $1,000.
Headmaster, Victoria School—R. F. Bomford. $930.
Education Officers—R. W. Watson-Hyatt; K. M. R. Menon; S. G. Mohd. Ghows, M.B.E.; P. F. Aroozoo; R. Ellis; Ting Siew Choon; G. P. Darke; J. I. A. Fraser. Scale B.2.
Master of Music—Vacant. Scale B.2.

Art Superintendent—R. Walker. Scale B.2.

Principal, Raffles Girls’ School—Miss M. M. Hadley (acting). $750.

Headmistress, Pearl’s Hill School—Mrs. D. F. Atherton (acting). $750.

Education Officers (women)—Miss F. Goodland; Mrs. C. M. Piol; Miss R. Russell; Mrs. N. Oelhers; Mrs. L. E. Phillips*; Mrs. M. Gilks*; Mrs. J. Cameron*; Mrs. I. M. Malone*; Mrs. H. M. T. Peers*. $370–25–545/B/570–25–720.

Superintendent, Trade School—F. B. Goude. $750–25–825.

ESTATE DUTIES

Commissioner of Estate Duties—Oon Khye Kiang (acting). $930/960/1,000.

Deputy Commissioner of Estate Duties—Oon Khye Kiang. $320–20–400/B/430–20–510/B/540–20–600/B/625–25–800.

Registrar of Trade Marks—A. H. Harrison. $900.

Deputy Registrar of Trade Marks—Fong Peck Yew (acting). $320–20–400/B/430–20–510/B/540–20–600/B/625–25–800.

FILM CENSORSHIP

Official Censor of Cinematograph Films, Malaya—J. Evans*. $550–25–750/B/800–25–825.

FISHERIES

Fishery Officer—Vacant. Scale B.3.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE CONTROL

Controller of Foreign Exchange—J. D. M. Smith, C.M.G. $1,200.

Deputy Controller of Foreign Exchange—M. W. Himsworth*. $1,000.

Assistant Controllers of Foreign Exchange—F. S. Overton*; J. D. Lewis*; Lee Siow Mong; Low Kok Pheng*; C. Ansell*. Scale C.1.

FORESTS

Forest Officer—C. Cairns. Scale B.2.

GARDENS, BOTANICAL

Director of Botanical Gardens—M. R. Henderson (acting). $1,000.

Assistant Director of Botanical Gardens—Vacant. Scale B.2.

Curator of Herbarium—J. Sinclair. Scale B.2.

Assistant Botanist—C. X. Furtado. Scale B.2.

Assistant Curator, Gardens—Vacant. $350–25–700.

Assistant Curator, Parks—G. H. Addison. $350–25–700.

IMMIGRATION AND PASSPORTS

Controller of Immigration—J. L. J. Haxworth (acting). $1,050.

Deputy Controller of Immigration—F. Sharp (acting). Scale A.1.

Assistant Controllers of Immigration—G. D. A. Fox; T. Mackie; G. St. G. Farmer. Scale C.2.

IMPORTS AND EXPORTS CONTROL

Executive Controller of Imports and Exports—W. H. Walker. Scale C.3.

Assistant Executive Controller of Imports and Exports—G. H. G. Barber*; V. N. Wade*. $350–25–700.

INCOME TAX

Comptroller of Income Tax—D. H. Tudor (acting). $1,050.

Assistant Comptrollers of Income Tax—R. N. Stone; G. T. Holloway; J. Wilson*. $650–25–875.

Records Officer—Tay Kim Tee. Scale C.1.

Public Liaison Officer—Lye Joon Seng. Scale C.1.

JUDICIAL

Chief Justice—C. M. Murray Aynsley. $1,700.

Puisne Judges—L. E. C. Evans; D. A. Brown; F. G. Smith*. $1,250.

Registrar, Supreme Court—W. J. Thorogood. $1,050.

Deputy Registrar and Sheriff, Supreme Court—Tan Thoon Lip (C.L.S.). $320–20–400/B/430–20–510/B/540–20–600/B/625–25–800.

Deputy Registrar, Supreme Court—E. H. d’Netto. $320–20–400/B/430–20–510/B/540–20–600/B/625–25–800.

District Judges—E. P. Shanks; Tan Ah Tah; A. W. Bellamy; H. A. Forrer*. Scale A.2.

Magistrates—A. G. Shears; M. H. MacDougal*; E. V. A. Peers*; S. E. Teh*; R. P. I. Pates*; P. Clague*. Scale A.2.

Administrative Officer—Vacant. Scale C.1.

Assistant District Judge—Vacant. $320–20–400/B/430–20–510/B/540–20–600/B/625–25–800.

Coroner—W. G. Porter. Scale C.1.

Assistant Coroner—Choor Singh. Scale C.1.

LABOUR

Commissioner for Labour—R. P. Bingham. $1,200.

Deputy Commissioner for Labour—C. W. Lyle (acting). $1,050.

Assistant Commissioners for Labour—C. R. D. Danby (acting); Chang Chuan Fu (acting). Scale A.1.

Chief Inspector of Machinery—J. A. Heaton. Scale B.3.

Inspector of Machinery—W. Renfrew. Scale B.3.

Registrar of Trade Union—Sng. Choon Yee*. Scale C.1.

Assistant Registrar of Trade Unions—Ho Cheong San. $350–25–700.

LAND AND DISTRICT OFFICES

Commissioner of Lands—J. A. Harvey. $1,200.

Collector of Land Revenue—Hon Sui Sen. Scale A.1.

Assistant Collectors of Land Revenue—E. E. Ebert; Lim Kang Honk (acting). $320–20–400/B/430–20–510/B/540–20–600/B/625–25–800.

Architect and Building Surveyor—M. D. Bascran. Scale B.3.

LEGAL

Attorney-General—E. J. Davies, K.C. $1,450.

Solicitor-General—H. E. Kingdon (acting). $1,100.

Crown Counsels—T. V. A. Brodie; M. Buttrose; A. D. Farrell; L. Rayner; A. H. Simpson; A. V. Winslow. Scale A.2.

Assistant to Attorney-General—Vacant. $320–20–400/B/430–20–510/B/540–20–600/B/625–25–800.

MARINE

Master Attendant—L. P. Lane, O.B.E., R.N. $1,050.

Deputy Master Attendant—W. H. Walmsley. Scale C.3.

Register of Shipping—Vacant. $450–25–700.

Engineer—L. Coulson. $450–25–700.

Deputy Registrar of Seamen—F. W. Jannings*. $600–25–650/B/675–25–800.
MARINE SURVEYS

Surveyor-General of Ships—A. Graham. $1,050.
Senior Ship and Engineer Surveyor—D. D. Graham. Scale B.3.
Senior Ship Surveyor—L. Irvine Brown.
Surveyors of Ships—J. H. McNeil; A. F. Jessiman. Scale B.3.

MEDICAL

Director of Medical Services—W. J. Vickers. $1,150.
Deputy Director of Medical Services—J. Coutts Milne. $1,050.
Chief Medical Officer—H. Scrimgeour. $1,000.
Medical Statistician—Vacant. $350–25A–700.

College of Medicine

Principal, College of Medicine—D. W. G. Faris (acting). $1,100.
Professor of Dental Surgery—E. K. Tratman. $930/960/1,000.
Professor of Physiology—R. G. M. S. MacGregor. $930/960/1,000.
Professor of Clinical Surgery—D. E. C. Mekie. $930/960/1,000.
Professor of Medicine—G. A. Ransome. $15,430**.
Professor of Anatomy—A. R. Ellis. $15,430**.
Professor of Biochemistry—J. W. H. Lugg. $15,430**.
Professor of Social Medicine and Hygiene—J. H. Strahan. $930/960/1,000.
Professor of Bacteriology—N. K. Sen. $15,430**.
Professor of Clinical Medicine—E. S. Monteiro. $930/960/1,000.
Professor of Pathology—Vacant. $15,430**.
Professor of Dental Prosthetics—Vacant. $15,430**.
Professor of Midwifery—B. H. Shears (acting). $15,430**.
Professor of Surgery—H. M. McGladdery (acting). $930/960/1,000.
Professor of Biology (Parasitology)—C. A. Gibson-Hill (acting). $15,430**.
Lecturer in Dental Mechanics—J. W. F. Taylor. Scale B.5.
Senior Lecturer in Pharmaceutics—A. F. Caldwell. Scale B.2.
Lecturer in Pharmaceutics—Vacant. Scale B.2.
Tutors in Bacteriology—Vacant. Scale B.5.
Tutors in Biology—A. A. Sandosham. Scale B.5.
Tutors in Biochemistry—C. J. Oliveiro; Leong Peng Cheong. Scale B.5.
Tutors in Pathology—T. Balsingham; K. Shanmugaratnam. Scale B.5.
Tutors in Physiology—Lee Teow Seng; Toh Chin Chye. Scale B.5.
Assistant Lecturers in Physiology—J. W. Black. Scale B.5.
Tutors in Anatomy—V. Thambipillai. Scale B.5.
Chief Medical Assistant—Vacant. Scale B.5.
Tutors in Medicine—C. E. Smith; T. J. Danaraj; Khoo Oon Teik; T. P. Loke. Scale B.5.
Surgical Chief Assistants—Vacant. Scale B.5.
Tutors in Surgery—Yeo Bok Choon; Khong Ban Tze; Yahya Cohen. Scale B.5.
Assistant Curator, Keith Museum, and Part-time Tutor in Bacteriology—Lim Kok Ann. Scale B.5.
Tutor in Midwifery and Gynaecology—Chong Tuck Kwong; Oon Chew Seng. Scale B.5.
Senior Lecturers in Social Medicine and Hygiene—Vacant. Scale B.5.
Assistant Lecturers in Social Medicine and Hygiene—Vacant. Scale B.5.

Tutors in Dental Surgery—Ng Wood Kan; F. A. C. Oehlers. Scale B.5.
Instructor in Dental Mechanics—G. H. Stephens. $440–20A–620.

Pathological Branch

Senior Pathologist—C. Subrahmanyam. $930/960/1,000.
Assistant Pathologists—L. S. Silva; A. O. Aaron; J. M. Drury-White*. Scale B.S.
Medical Officer (Jurisprudence)—Vacant. Scale B.5.

Blood Transfusion Service

Medical Officer—M. E. McClaren*. Scale B.5.

Health Branch

Chief Health Officer—G. H. Lowe. $1,000.
Health Officers—W. A. Nicholas; J. C. Burns; M. Dorangham; K. Sivagnanam; Lim Poh Sim; Too Tung Ying; G. F. De Souza; M. M. H. Gibson-Hill*; J. Flinter*; E. G. Porter*. Scale B.5.
Lady Health Officer—C. H. Coutts-Milne*. Scale B.5.
Lady Medical Officer, Child Welfare Centre—Tan Jiak Hoon. Scale B.5.
Lady Dental Officer—P. M. Hill. Scale B.5.

Quarantine Station

Health Officers—A. Arulanandam; A. L. Greenway. Scale B.5.
Lady Health Officer—Vacant. Scale B.5.

Hospitals and Dispensaries

Surgeon—B. M. Johns. $930/960/1,000.
Ophthalmic Surgeon, Physician and Lecturer in Ophthalmology—A. D. Williamson. $930/960/1,000.
Radiologist—J. W. Winchester. $930/960/1,000.
T.B. Specialist—C. E. Smith (acting). $930/960/1,000.
Physician and Lecturer in Pediatrics—G. Haridas. $930/960/1,000.
Ophthalmologist—Vacant. Scale B.5.
Registrars—Vacant. Scale B.5.
Senior Anaesthetist—D. A. B. Hopkin (acting). $930/960/1,000.
Dental Officers—H. C. Sandosham; H. H. Elkan. Scale B.5.
Assistant Anaesthetists—E. Morrison; P. D. Kilner. Scale B.5.
Assistant Radiologists—F. Y. Khoo*. Scale B.5.
Medical Officers—D. A. B. Hopkin; W. A. Balhatcher; E. V. Crowe; W. J. Tyson; D. C. MacGilchrist; K. Vellasamy; Hannah Tan; Au Kee Hock; R. G. Gunatilaka; C. Marcus; Toh Chiong Hieng; Wong Kin Yip; Wee Phek Neo; Neoh Thean Soo; Mabel Wong; Quah Quee Guan; P. R. Elliot*; F. C. Jacob; S. N. Kapur; Loh Siew Gek; C. A. Pallis*; J. J. O'Sullivan*; C. O'Colmain*; B. H. Storey*; R. S. Corbitt*; P. M. Hewlett*. Scale B.5.
Secretary, General Hospital—A. T. Meyer. $350–25–700.

Kandang Kerbau Maternity Hospital

Medical Officers—B. H. Sheares; Elaine Chong. Scale B.5.
Assistant Obstetrician—A. C. Sinha. Scale B.5.
Assistant Anaesthetist—Vacant. Scale B.5.

Tuberculosis Clinic

Radiologist—Vacant. $930/960/1,000.
Medical Officers—Vacant. Scale B.5.
Mental Hospital

Medical Superintendent—B. F. Home. $930/960/1,000.

Assistant Medical Superintendent—J. Browne. Scale B.5.

Medical Officers—E. C. Winslow; Yap Meow Foo; R. T. Morrow*. Scale B.5.

Leper Settlement

Medical Officer—Vacant. Scale B.5.

Social Hygiene Branch

Senior Medical Officer—C. Marcus (acting). $930/960/1,000.

Medical Officers—Sybil Kiani; Koh Kim Yam. Scale B.5.

Government Medical Stores

Superintending Pharmaceutical Chemist—D. E. Lovett. Scale B.2.

Meteorological Services

Director of Meteorological Services—H. B. F. Moorhead. $1,100.

Assistant Director of Meteorological Services—C. A. Lea. $930.

Meteorological Officers—I. G. John; I. E. M. Watts; R. Mather; N. Blook. Scale B.2.

Assistant Meteorological Officers—K. C. Koruthu. $350–25–700.

Military

Officer-in-Charge, V.F.R.O.—J. A. Marshall*. Scale C.1.

Staff Officer, M.R.N.V.R.—J. A. Marshall*. Scale C.1.

Museum and Library, Raffles

Director of Raffles Museum and Library—M. W. F. Tweedie. $1,000.

Curator—H. D. Collings. Scale B.3.

Assistant Curator—C. A. Gibson-Hill. Scale B.3.

Librarian—Mrs. M. Shelly*. $350–25–700.

Official Assignee

Official Assignee—W. G. Alcock. Scale A.2.

Assistant Official Assignees—D. H. Chapman. Scale A.2.

Police

Commissioner of Police—E. V. Fowler, C.B.E. (acting). $1,350.

Deputy Commissioners of Police—G. R. Livett; D. K. Broadhurst, D.S.O. (acting). $1,050.

Assistant Commissioners of Police—A. E. G. Blades (acting). $1,000. J. R. C. Denny (acting). $1,000. C. J. A. Haines (acting). $1,000.

Superintendents—A. G. Cunningham-Perdria; A. E. G. Blades; J. R. C. Denny; A. R. Anderson; D. E. Nickels (acting); C. W. Byrde (acting).

Assistant Superintendents—P. J. Shannon; G. W. Jackson; K. L. Johnson; D. E. Nickels; C. W. Byrde; C. J. A. Haines; B. C. Fay; D. W. Dale; E. V. Smith; E. Moule; A. H. Frew; A. McLennan; J. E. Jeans; A. R. McEwan; F. G. Minns; C. J. R. Bembroke; B. Lewis; J. A. Embury; F. J. Patton; H. Hall; T. H. Allen; M. Boyle; G. D. Hunter-Gray; P. S. Gordon; L. R. Prynn; J. W. Chilton; G. C. Ripley, M.B.E.; A. C. Good; A. E. Minns; E. T. J. Bunnens; E. J. Linssen; A. G. Shears; J. E. Fairbairn; M. A. Holdstock; J. Davies; B. W. F. Goodrich; R. P. H. Shelmerdine; R. T. Cooper; O. O. Griffiths; D. C. Thomas; D. N. Turner; P. J. de B. Wilmot; W. R. M. Haxworth; W. A. P. Grose; Song Koh Hoo; J. Pickup; Sardar Singh; John Le Cain; Cheah Teng Cheoh; A. T. Rajah; Eu Chew Eang; J. K. Kerr; Mohd. Amin b. Mohd. Jamil; A. Ananda Rajah; R. C. Hoy; T. F. Flynn; N. V. B. Wilmshurst; H. R. Turner, M.C.; M. L. Abrams; E. M. Glossop; B. J. Bleasdale; A. T. Bevan; A. J. E. Longden; R. A. H. Cowan; B. St. J. Hickman; A. D. C. Buckell; G. C. Matthews; R. Westlake; E. F. B. Brooksmith; S. D. M. Jepson; R. B. Corridon. Scale C.2.

Archivist—W. T. Knott. Scale C.2.

Postal Services

Director of Posts—G. C. Allen. $1,000.

Assistant Controllers of Posts—Wong Peng Swee; E. L. Lawley; V. L. Smith; C. E. Salton; L. G. Murray. Scale C.1.

Accountant—V. A. Fish. Scale C.1.

Printing

Government Printer—V. C. G. Gatrell. $750–25–900.

Deputy Government Printer—F. R. Vine. $600–25–750.

Prisons

Commissioner of Prisons—G. E. W. W. Bayly. $960.

Superintendent—A. W. Clow. Scale C.1.

Public Works

Director of Public Works—W. A. Kirk. $1,150.

Deputy Director of Public Works—Vacant. $1,000.

Government Architect—D. Cuthbertson. $1,000.

Senior Executive Engineer—R. J. Bee. $930.

Superintending Engineer, Changi Airport—J. J. Bryan. $930.

Executive Engineers—R. R. Cambridge; J. Cumming. Scale B.3.

Assistant Engineers—J. T. Payne; N. A. Photiades; D. Brown; S. A. Malone; F. J. Howel. Scale B.3.

Assistant Architect—P. M. Barnes. Scale B.3.

Quantity Surveyor—R. H. Ricketts. Scale B.3.

Senior Executive Electrical Engineer—L. K. Jones. $930.

Assistant Electrical Engineer—C. H. White. Scale B.3.

Superintendent of Stores and Furniture—W. G. Smith. $400–25–700.

Mechanical Engineer—Vacant. Scale B.3.

Social Welfare

Secretary for Social Welfare—T. P. F. McNeice, O.B.E. $1,050.

Deputy Secretary for Social Welfare—T. E. Hughes. Scale A.1.

Assistant Secretary for Social Welfare—J. Buckoke. Scale A.1.

Assistant Secretaries for Social Welfare—Rev. J. T. N. Handy; C. S. Dant; Tan Kay Hai; E. F. Middleditch*; C. E. MacCormack*. Scale C.1.

Superintendent Bukit Timah Boy’s Home—Seah Yun Khong.

Probation Officer—F. J. M. Briggs. $600.

Juvenile Court Magistrate—P. Samy. $540–20–600/B/625–25–800.

Camp Commandant—Vacant. Scale C.1.
SINGAPORE : SOMALILAND PROTECTORATE

STATISTICS
Registrar of Malayan Statistics—E. J. Phillips. $1,050.
Assistant Registrar of Malayan Statistics—Vacant.
Scale B.2. F. H. Bodestyne (acting). $320–20–400/B/430–20–510/B/540–20–600/B/625–25–800.
Assistant Registrar of Imports and Exports—Vacant. $360–25–700.

SURVEY
Chief Surveyor—A. Graham. $1,000.
Deputy Chief Surveyor—G. L. Gibson (acting). $930.
Surveyor—R. H. Williams. Scale B.3.

TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Director of Telecommunications—G. C. O'Farrell (acting). $1,050.
Controller of Telecommunications—R. J. Boast (acting). $960.
Assistant Controllers of Telecommunications (Engineering)—N. E. Thomas; R. H. Fifield; C. F. Isherwood; M. D. O'Hare; E. R. C. J. Thomas. Scale B.3.

TRADE UNIONS
Assistant Trade Union Adviser—A. G. D. Simpson. Scale C.1.

TREASURY
Accountant-General—N. M. Kennedy. $1,000.
Accountants, Chartered or Incorporated—G. Hilton; W. G. Collings; E. R. Scoffield; C. C. Dickens*; A. Baker*; G. R. Nesbit*. Scale B.3.
Assistant to the Accountant-General—Vacant. $320–20–400/B/430–20–510/B/540–20–600/B/625–25–800.

VETERINARY
Chief Veterinary Officer—R. A. Wright (acting). $930.

