SWAZILAND.

Situation and Area.

Swaziland is bounded on the North, West, and South by the Transvaal, and on the East by Portuguese territory and Tongaland, now part of the Natal Province.

Its area is 6,678 square miles.

Description and Climate.

The territory is divided geographically into three longitudinal regions.

The mountainous region on the West approximates an altitude of over 4,000 feet.

What is known as the Middle Veld is some 2,000 feet lower, while the Low Veld, bounded on the East by the Ubombo Mountains, attains an average altitude of not more than 1,000 feet. The first two regions are remarkably well watered. Innumerable small streams unite with the large rivers which traverse the country from West to East; except for these the Low Veld is not very well watered, though bore holes put down recently by private enterprise have revealed the existence of underground supplies of water at several places.

Swaziland is on the whole, very healthy, but in common with other parts of similar country in South Africa, malaria is prevalent in the Low Veld during some of the summer months.

Mbabane, the headquarters of the Administration, is situated on the hills at an altitude of 4,000 feet, and Bremeradorp, the old capital, is on the Middle Veld. Other European centres are the Government Stations at Hlatikulu, Mankaiana, Stegi and Pigg's Peak.

Native History.

The Swazis are an allied race to the Zulus and speak the same language, with minor modifications. According to themselves the tribe lived originally in Southern Tongaland, from whence they migrated about 300 years ago to the Tshiselweni country, that is the country to the West of the Ubombo Range, between the Pongolo and the Great Usutu Rivers. Here they remained until 1815 when being attacked by Zwide, Chief of the Ndawande, the major portion of the tribe under their chief Sobhusa, better known as Somhlolo, fled north and settled near the present site of Bremeradorp. The petty tribes or clans of Barowi, Bavenda or Bapedi origin then in occupation of Swaziland North of the Great Usutu were conquered and absorbed. Under Sobhusa and his successor Mswati, they occupied territory up to Barberton in the North and extending towards Carolina and Ermelo on the West, while the tribes occupying what is now the Lydenburg District also paid tribute to the Swazi King.

The Swasis are known to themselves and other native tribes as the Ama-Ngwane, that is, the people of Ngwane, one of their early Chiefs, and the country as Kwa-Ngwane, the land of Ngwane. After their flight to the North they were never seriously disturbed, though they were occasionally raided by Zulu tribes from the South, especially after the death of Dingana, who was killed by a Swazi Impi on the Southern border, after his defeat by the Boers and his brother Mpande. Subsequently through the good offices of Sir Theophilus Shepstone (Somtsean) amicable relations subsisted with Mpande, the Zulu King and his successor Cetwayo. In 1879 the Swasis lent assistance to the British in the war against Sikukula.
(Sikukuni), but took no part in the Zulu War. Through the possession of secret medicines, used in the propitiation of the spirits of ancestral Chiefs, the Swazi Chiefs hold a pre-eminent position as rain makers. The native Government consisted of the King and his Council, made up of the Malangeni, the Chiefs of royal blood, and the Chief indunas of the tribe. The assistance of the witchdoctors was called in whenever necessary, to communicate with the spirits of departed Chiefs and to clean the country of sorcerers and other doers of evil. A military system of trained regiments on the lines formulated by Dingiswayo and Tshaka was adopted, mainly no doubt as a defence against the Zulus.

In the year 1846 Mswazi ceded whatever rights he had in the Lydenburg District to the Lydenburg Republic. Subsequently he, and later, Mbandini, entered into agreements purporting to cede the whole of the territory to that Republic and to its successor the late South African Republic. These later cessions were in fact nullified by the Conventions of 1881 and 1884 entered into between Great Britain and the Republic though the boundaries of the Transvaal laid down in the 1881 Convention constituted a considerable encroachment on what was claimed to be Swazi Territory.

In 1921 the Chief Regent Labotsebeni handed over her duties to her grandson Sobhuza, who was duly installed as Paramount Chief. The Chief Regent had a long term of office after the death of her husband, Mbandeni, in 1889 and, later, of her son Bhunu. She was a wise chief and did valuable work for her people and country. Her relations with the Administration were always of a friendly nature. The Paramount Chief is 23 years of age. He was educated at Zombode and Levedale.

European Settlement.

During the eighties the King "Mbandini" in return for money and other payments granted concessions for various periods. Every conceivable right was granted away, not only for land, minerals, grazing, and timber, but also for all imaginable purposes, including exemption from taxes, for railways, telegraphs, mining patents, collection of the King's revenue, trading, etc. All unallotted land and minerals also formed the subject of concessions.

In 1888 a charter of self-government was granted to the whites in the country. Later, in 1890, under a Convention between the British Government and the South African Republic, a provisional Government was, with the consent of the Swazis, set up, consisting of a Government Committee composed of representatives of those two Powers, and a representative of the Swazis, a Government Secretary, Attorney General and other officials and of a Chief Court. This Court adjudicated on the initial validity of all concessions granted by the King, and, with a few exceptions, confirmed the grants in respect of such initial validity.

In accordance with pledges given to the Government of the South African Republic the provisional Administration came to an end three years later, when the British Government signed a fresh Convention, which permitted the South African Republic to acquire from the Regent and her Council an Organic Proclamation conferring on the South African Republic rights of jurisdiction, legislation and administration without incorporation in the South African Republic. The Swazis refused to sign the Organic Proclamation which had been drafted for them, and accordingly its provisions, with some of those in the 1883 Convention, were embodied in the final Convention of 1894, under which the South African Republic exercised powers of protection, legislation, jurisdiction and administration in Swaziland, subject to the limitations of the Convention.

On the conquest of the Transvaal, all the rights and powers of the late South African Republic passed to His Majesty, but since the other party to the Convention of 1894 had disappeared without the limitations therein, an Order in Council under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act was issued in June, 1903, providing that the Governor of the Transvaal should administer Swaziland, and conferring on him the right to legislate by Proclamation.

On the cessation of hostilities a British Special Commissioner, with a small force of South African Constabulary, was sent into the country, and a provisional Administration was established.

In accordance with the powers granted to him, the Governor issued a Proclamation in 1904 providing for administration and for dealing with the concessions question. The Laws of the Transvaal in force at the date of the Proclamation were applied to Swaziland, mutatis mutandis. Courts were established with the rights of appeal to the Supreme Court of the Transvaal, and an appeal was permitted from the decisions of the chiefs in civil matter to the Court of the Resident Magistrate. The chiefs were otherwise confirmed in their civil jurisdiction over natives, subject to the exclusion of usages incompatible with the due exercise of His Majesty's power and jurisdiction, or clearly injurious to the welfare of the natives.

The Commission constituted under the Proclamation of 1904 to deal with the concessions examined the concessions granting the exclusive rights, except exclusive rights to land and minerals, with a view to their expropriation at their value prior to the commencement of hostilities. The Commission reported in 1906, and the concessions, the subject of its report, were, with few exceptions, expropriated. The Commission subsequently dealt with the question of boundaries of land, mineral and grazing concessions. The general survey of these concessions, necessary to determine the conflicting rights, was also completed. Under the concessions Partition Proclamation issued in 1907 land and grazing concessions were subjected to a deduction of one-third of their area for the sole and exclusive use and occupation of the natives of Swaziland and the remaining two-thirds were freed from such occupation subject to the provision that for five years from July 1st, 1909, no natives actually resident on such land could be compelled to move therefrom but after that period they could only continue to occupy such land on terms to be agreed upon between themselves and the concessionaires. These Agreements are subject to confirmation by the Resident Commissioner. Proclamation No. 24 of 1913 provided simple and effective machinery for the removal of natives from concessions after the period of five years had elapsed. This took place in 1914 and there was no large movement of natives from concessions. Those who desired to move did so voluntarily and the remainder made terms with the concessionaires and remained on the farms. In no instance has it been necessary forcibly to eject any native family from a concession.
Of the total area of Swaziland, 4,274,014 acres, 1,635,774 acres have been set aside for the exclusive use of the Swazis and they have, in addition, acquired by purchase, 77,076 acres.

By an Order in Council, dated 1st December, 1906, the control of Swaziland was transferred from the Governor of the Transvaal to the High Commissioner for South Africa. Under the Order in Council the High Commissioner issued a Proclamation in March, 1907, providing for the appointment of a Resident Commissioner, a Government Secretary, Assistant Commissioners and the establishment of a Police Force. The Laws of the Transvaal were re-enacted, mutatis mutandis, and, except where modified by Statute, the Roman-Dutch Common Law was put in force by the Proclamation. A special Court, having the full jurisdiction of a Superior Court, was established together with Courts of Assistant Commissioners with a limited jurisdiction.

The paramount chief and other chiefs were confirmed in their Civil Jurisdiction over natives subject to appeal to the Resident Commissioner. Provision was made for the Swaziland Deeds Office and Surveyor-General's Office to remain at Pretoria under control of the officers responsible prior to the date of the Proclamation.

An elected Advisory Council, representative of the Europeans, was established in 1921, to advise the Administration on purely European affairs.

**Population.**

The population of Swaziland, according to the census of 1921, was 2,203 whites, 463 coloured, 111,106 Natives—Bantu.

**Religion and Education.**

The Anglican Church, the Roman Catholic Church, The South Africa General Mission, the Scandinavian Alliance Mission, the African Methodist Episcopal Mission, the Wesleyan Methodist Mission, the Independent Methodist Mission, the Pentecostal Church of the Nazarene, the American International Holiness Union, the Berlin Lutheran Mission, the Full Gospel Mission of Norway and the Swedish Alliance Mission have representatives in the country.

The Administration has established a native school at Zomboide, the kraal of the Regent, at which, until recently, the young paramount chief was educated. The Government also maintains fourteen schools for European children at various centres, and makes annual grants to the various native missions which undertake native education.

**Industries, Agriculture & Trade.**

Mining in Swaziland is carried out under the authority of Concessions granted by the late King Mbandini. Tin is found in payable quantities in the vicinity of Mbabane. Gold Mining was carried on for some years at the Pig's Peak and other mines, but, owing to the increased cost of this class of mining all work has ceased for the present. The Crown owns a few mineral areas, and legal provision has been made for the exploitation of these by the public in the event of payable minerals being discovered.

| Year   | Output of Tin (tons) | Valued at (£) |
|--------|----------------------|--------------|
| 1920-21| 407                  | 45,258       |
| 1921-22| 391                  | 29,767       |
| 1922   | 200-224              | 16,420       |

**Gold.**

| Year   | Output (ozs.) | Valued at (£) |
|--------|---------------|--------------|
| 1920-21| 127           | 630          |
| 1921-22| 211           | 1,066        |
| 1922   | 427-71        | 1,926        |

There are approximately 225,000 head of horned stock, and 130,000 native sheep and goats in the territory. Cattle ranching on a large scale has been in operation for some years. The Barr-Ranch has about 17,000 head of cattle and approximately 100 imported pure bred and 170 grade bulls and has under cultivation about 600 acres of mealies. Ranches Limited have about 7,000 head of cattle, 50 imported pure bred and 50 grade bulls.

The Coal Mines Ranch has about 6,000 head of cattle. Several other farmers have herds of cattle ranging from 1,000 to 3,000 head. The young stock from the imported bulls on the Ranches show a very marked improvement on the local cattle.

The stock is fat all the year round and fat oxen can be put on the market in the winter and spring without any artificial feeding.

Dipping of all cattle is consistently carried out and diseases of stock are not more virulent here than elsewhere in South Africa. The East Coast fever disease has now almost been eradicated.

Approximately 300,000 sheep (Merinos) are brought in from the Transvaal high veld for winter grazing but this class of sheep has not so far been farmed in the Territory otherwise.

From an agricultural point of view farming is assuming some importance owing mainly to the grant on easy terms of allotments of Crown Land to European settlers.

Maize is the staple product but cotton is likely to be grown extensively in the future in suitable localities. Tobacco is also a paying crop and many portions of the Territory have been favourably reported on for citrus and sub-tropical fruits. At present, in the absence of a railway, no sufficient market exists for products of this nature. The Swazis grow the usual native crops but in insufficient quantity to feed themselves. Efforts are however being made to improve their methods.

No statistics of the imports into and the exports from Swaziland are now kept. By an agreement with the Government of the Union of South Africa, Swaziland is dealt with, for Customs purposes, as a part of the Union. Payments due to Swaziland are assessed on the proportions which the average of the collections for the three years ended March 31st, 1910, bear to the total customs collections of the Union in each year. The imports consist principally of maize, flour, groceries, wearing apparel, hardware, spirits, tobacco, and kaffir truck; while the principal exports are Cassiterite tin, cotton (unginned), tobacco, hides, and slaughter oxen.

There are branches of the National Bank of South Africa, Limited, at Mbabane, and Hlatikulu, as also a Post Office Savings Bank at Mbabane. The currency is British.

Stores exist where necessary to serve the needs of the population, but the volume of trade is small.

**The War.**

The Swazis sent a small number of men to France with the Labour Battalion. They also collected and transmitted to the King as a War gift the sum of £3,000 for which two Aeroplanes, suitably inscribed were purchased by direction of His Majesty. Their attitude during the war was loyal.
Amongst the Europeans practically every eligible man of British birth able to get away served in one or other of the Theatres of war. Casualties fortunately were few in proportion to the number at the front. War Funds were also well supported, and in addition a troop for service in South West Africa was horsed by public subscription.

Revenue and Expenditure.

The revenue and expenditure for the two years ended March 31st, 1922, was:

| Year    | Revenue   | Expenditure |
|---------|-----------|-------------|
| 1921-22 | £87,104   | £94,793     |
| 1922-23 | £89,440 16s. Od. | £89,674 8s. 11d. |

The public debt on March 31st, 1923, was £92,500l. for the repayment of which provision has been made through the medium of a sinking fund.

Swaziland Administration Establishment.

Resident Commissioner, De S. M. G. Honey, C.M.G., 1,350l., and 380l. travelling and subsistence allowance.

Deputy Resident Commissioner and Government Secretary, B. Nicholson, D.S.O., M.C., 1,100l. personal salary.

Chief Clerk, L. J. Puttick, 580l. personal salary.

Record Clerk, C. G. Leary, M.C., 400l. personal salary.

Clerk attached to the High Commissioner's Office, J. R. Armstrong, 420l., house allowance 108l.

Financial Secretary, L. G. Luscombe, 725l.

Assistant Accountant, W. H. Russell, 400l., allowance 50l.

Clerk, A. W. Walters, 200l.

Assistant Commissioner, Mbabane District, B. H. Warner, B.A., 800l., and 135l. horse and travelling allowance.

Clerks, H. W. Boast, 420l. personal salary, 51l. horse and travelling allowance; A. H. B. Hoare, 260l.

Clerk, E. Lewell, M.C., 320l., horse and travelling allowance 51l.

Gaoler, H. O'Farrell, 360l.

Resident Justice of the Peace, Bremerdorp, S. B. Williams, 450l. personal salary, and 76l. p.a. horse and travelling allowance.

Assistant Commissioner, Mmakalana District, D. H. Harvey, 675l., and 135l. horse and travelling allowance.

Clerk, A. C. Hulett, 230l., and 51l. horse and travelling allowance.

Assistant Commissioner, Hlatikulu District, A. G. Marwick, 1,000l. personal salary, and 135l. travelling and subsistence allowance.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner and Clerk, H. B. A. McCarter, 625l., horse and travelling allowance 76l.

Clerk, A. E. Pasea, 350l., horse and travelling allowance 51l.

Clerk, J. Hope, 230l.

Assistant Commissioner, Uvombo District, T. A. F. Steward, 675l., and 135l. horse and travelling allowance, 100l. climatic allowance.

Clerk, H. P. M. Fitzpatrick, 380l., horse and travelling allowance 51l.; climatic allowance 55l.

Auditor, A. Warren.

Judicial.

Special Court of Swaziland: President, G. T. Morice, K.C.; Members, The Resident Commissioner, The Deputy Resident Commissioner, and five District Assistant Commissioners.

Master, Registrar and Sheriff, W. W. Usher, 475l., also Deputy Assistant Commissioner, Mbabane District.

Crown Prosecutor, C. T. Blakeway (Advocate).

Medical Department.

Principal Medical Officer, R. Jamison, F.R.C.S., 750l. and 75l. subsistence allowance.

Assistant Medical Officer, Hlatikulu, Capt. G. O'N. Waddington, 500l. and 135l. horse and travelling allowance.

Hospital Assistant, Mbabane, J. Anderson, 300l.

Hospital Assistant, Waukaiana, H. B. Barnard, 390l.

Veterinary Department.

Principal Veterinary Officer, W. A. Elder, F.R.C.V.S., 750l., subsistence allowance, 75l.; horse allowance 60l.

Six Stock Inspectors, 3 at 380l., 2 at 360l., 1 at 322l. and one at 250l.

Educational Department.

Teachers, Mrs. I. I. Fanner, 190l.; Miss D. Lewis, 100l.; Miss A. Maritz, 180l.; Mrs. van Aswegen, 200l.; Mrs. S. Maritz, 244l.; J. C. Breitenbach, 210l.; Miss H. S. A. du Plessis, 130l.; P. Erasmus, 200l.; Mrs. Pieterse, 120l.; R. P. G. van der Nist, 100l.; Mrs. J. P. R. du Plessis, 100l.; Mrs. M. J. Dekker, 120l.; Mrs. C. Fitzpatrick, 180l.; Miss M. Whitelaw, 150l.; Miss J. Grobler, 130l.; Rev. J. J. Xaba, 180l.; Native Teachers, 4 at 120l., 1 at 100l., 1 at 72l., 1 at 60l.

Matron, Zombode School, Mrs. E. Xaba, 60l.

Inspector of Education, F. H. Dutton, M.A.

Police.

Inspector and Staff Officer, Capt. G. D. Roberts, 570l., and 135l., horse and travelling allowance.

Sub-Inspector, T. W. Vine, D.C.M., 480l., and 135l. horse and travelling allowance whilst acting Deputy A.C., Mbabane (Peak).

Superintendent, M. Hinds, 440l.

4 European Sergeants, each 300l. by 15l. to 360l.

7 European Corporals, each 230l. by 15l. to 300l.

9 European Troopers, 180l. by 10l. to 220l. each.

1 Native Officer, 120l.

137 Native N.C.O.'s and Constables, 36l. to 96l.

Public Works Department.

Government Engineer, 620l., subsistence allowance 75l.

Government Engineer, J. H. Gardner, B.Sc.

Clerk, R. W. Blanchard, 430l.
Colony and Bechuanaland, to encourage emigration | approbation of the Commander-in-Chief.

(o)
RHODESIA.

Rhodesia (so called after the late Right Hon. Cecil J. Rhodes) is the name of the country formerly under the administration of the British South Africa Company, whose principal field of operations was defined in its Charter of Incorporation as "the region of South Africa lying immediately to the north of British Bechuanaland, and to the north and west of the South African Republic, and to the west of the Portuguese Dominions." These extensive territories are divided into

1. Southern Rhodesia, or the provinces of Mashonaland and Matabeleland (area 149,000 square miles).

2. Northern Rhodesia, or the whole of the British sphere lying between the Portuguese Settlements, Tanganyika Territory, and the Belgian Congo, with the exception of the strip of territory forming the Nyassaland Protectorate. The area is estimated at about 291,000 square miles.

I.—SOUTHERN RHODESIA.

The limits of Southern Rhodesia, as defined by the Southern Rhodesia Order in Council, dated 20th October, 1898, are the parts of South Africa bounded by the Portuguese Possessions, by the Transvaal Colony to a point opposite the mouth of the River Shashi, by the River Shashi to its junction with the Tati and Ramaquaban rivers, thence by the Ramaquaban river to its source, thence by the watershed to the Rivers Shashi and Ramaquaban until such watershed strikes the Hunter's Road (called the Pandamtonka Road), thence by that road to the River Zambesi, and by that river to the Portuguese boundary. The said limits include an area of ten miles' radius round Fort Tuli, but exclude the area of the district known as the Tati district as defined by the Charter.

II.—NORTHERN RHODESIA.

This territory was previously divided into two provinces:

(a.) Barotziland-North-Western Rhodesia.
(b.) North-Eastern Rhodesia.

By the order in Council, dated 4th May, 1911, these two provinces were amalgamated under the title of Northern Rhodesia. The amalgamation took effect from 17th August, 1911. The limits of the territory as defined by the order in Council are "the parts of Africa bounded by Southern Rhodesia, German South-West Africa (now South-West Africa), Portuguese West Africa, the Congo Free State, German East Africa (now Tanganyika), Nyassaland and Portuguese East Africa."

In March, 1921, Sir Drummond Chaplin, Administrator of Southern Rhodesia, became also Administrator of Northern Rhodesia. He relinquished office on 20th Sept., 1923, and W. R. A. Goode was appointed as Acting Administrator.

History.

On the 29th October, 1889, a Royal Charter was granted to the British South Africa Company, conferring upon it large powers of administration to carry out the objects for which it was formed, the principal being to extend northwards the railway and telegraph systems of the Cape Colony and Bechuanaland, to encourage emigration and colonisation, to promote trade and commerce, and to develop and work mineral and other concessions.

Early in 1890 a police force of Europeans was raised and equipped, and in June of that year, after obtaining permission from King Lobengula, a pioneer expedition on a large scale was organised to cut a road from a point on the Macloutsie River, a tributary of the Limpopo, through the south-eastern part of Matabeleland into Mashonaland, the objective point of the expedition being Mount Hampden, near which large belts of gold-bearing quartz were known to exist. This point was duly reached, and Fort Salisbury, 12 miles South-east of Mount Hampden, having been founded (12th September, 1890) the pioneers were disbanded, and, in accordance with the agreement made with them, were allowed to peg off auriferous claims and farms.

In July, 1893, the Matabele made a raid into Mashonaland, and killed a number of natives living under the Company's protection, near Victoria, when they were attacked and driven back by the Company's police. After an unsuccessful attempt to arrange matters, preparations were made for the invasion of Matabeleland, to anticipate an expected attack on the Bechuanaland Protectorate and Mashonaland. The Company's police and a small force of volunteers and native allies advanced on Bulawayo from the east, while the Bechuanaland Police, which had been largely reinforced, advanced with Khama and some 2,000 of his men by way of Tati from the south. Two successful engagements were fought by the Company's forces near Bulawayo, in which the Matabele suffered very severely. The Bechuanaland police were also attacked by a strong force of Matabele, which they repulsed with great loss. Lobengula fled, and Bulawayo was occupied, and a force sent in pursuit of the king.

This force was unfortunately divided by the sudden rising of the River Shangani, and Major Wilson and a small party of men were, after a heroic resistance, killed to a man. Arrangements for the future administration of the country were completed by the High Commissioner and Mr. Rhodes on behalf of the Company. Lobengula, who was said to be endeavouring to escape across the Zambesi, is reported to have died from small-pox or fever.

In 1896, owing to a variety of causes, the Matabele broke out in rebellion, and shortly after the Mashonas followed suit. After a prolonged struggle the rebellion was subdued in September, 1897.

From 1897 to 1899 the development of the country advanced rapidly, but the outbreak of the war with the Republics, in October, 1899, practically put a stop to progressive work of every kind and the investment of Mafeking and the occupation by the Boers of a section of the railway in Bechuanaland cut the Territory completely off from communication with the South. During the operations that followed, a conspicuous part was played by the British South African Police and by Volunteers from the civilian population of Rhodesia, many of whom continued, after the relief of Mafeking, to serve until peace was declared in other parts of the theatre of War. It was estimated that the number of men contributed by Rhodesia, was approximately 1,500, being at least 12½ per cent. of the European population. Their good work earned frequent mentions in despatches and secured the special approbation of the Commander-in-Chief.
The effects of the European War upon Rhodesian interests were at first mainly indirect, notwithstanding that the territory is bounded for short distances by what was "German" East Africa and "German" South West Africa respectively. On the Eastern frontier, a force of Rhodesian Police repelled successfully an invasion from "German" East Africa of Northern Rhodesia. On the Western frontier, other Rhodesian Police, on the instructions of the High Commissioner, took possession of German territory in the neighbourhood of the Zambezi, at the eastern extremity of the Caprivi Strip, and occupied Shuckmansburg. On the 17th April, 1915, a detachment of Northern Rhodesia Rifles and Northern Rhodesia Police, under the late Major Boyd Cuningham, captured a stockaded position 35 miles east of Fife on the north-eastern frontier of Northern Rhodesia. Later, on the same Border, the Northern Rhodesia Police under Colonel F. A. Hodson, assisted by a company of the Northern Rhodesia Rifles under Major Boyd Cuningham, held their own for many months with the assistance of a battalion of Belgian native troops under European officers.

On 28th June, the enemy attacked the Rhodesian entrenched camp at Saisi (28 miles east of Abercorn) which was defended by a small mixed force of British and Belgians under Major O'Sullivan, Northern Rhodesia Police. They were driven off with considerable loss. A second attack was made on the 25th July, by a force estimated at 2,000 (including 400 Europeans and 200 Arabs), and two guns. This force was also beaten off with heavy loss, after an eight days' siege, on 3rd August. The whole of the forces on the Northern frontier, including those based upon Nyassaland, were placed subsequently under the command of Brig-General (now Major-General Sir Edward) Northey, A.D.C.

The efforts of the Company in Northern Rhodesia were largely devoted to the maintenance of supplies to the columns under General Northey, and were successful, particularly in the opening up of a water-route for the conveyance of stores by canoe from Kabunda, via Lake Bangweulu to a point on the Lukulu River near Kasama, whence the stores were conveyed overland to the forces.

On the 2nd May, 1916, General Northey ordered a general advance into "German" East Africa of the troops under his command, and by July all enemy territory adjacent to the Northern Rhodesia border had been cleared of the enemy.

Towards the end of October, 1918, the fugitive German force, under Colonel Von Lettow-Vorbeck, doubled southwards, and on the 1st November made an unsuccessful attack on the frontier station, Fife. From there they proceeded southwest to Kasama, the advanced base of supplies for the forces operating on the border. The bulk of the stores had, however, been evacuated on the first news of the enemy's advance. After burning most of the buildings and their remaining contents, Von Lettow marched along the Kasama-Kashitu motor-road, and early on the 13th November, his advanced parties opened fire on the Company's rubber factory on the Chambesi River. At this juncture the news of the Armistice was received by the Company's District Commissioner and communicated to Von Lettow, who accepted the position and suspended hostilities. The enemy's whole force, consisting of 155 Europeans, 1,300 native troops, and about 3,000 porters and followers, subsequently proceeded to Abercorn, where their surrender was formally accepted a few days later.

As regards the war generally, the number of individual Rhodesians (men and women) known to have undertaken duties in connection with it was 7,009. Of these, 6,859 served with H.M. Forces during the war. 791 were killed in action or died of wounds or disease. Commissions were granted in 1,940 cases, and 987 gained honours and distinctions. The proportion of those who served to the total population was remarkably high. In addition, between 40,000 and 60,000 natives served as carriers and on other duty, such as Native Police. Several were awarded Honours, and many gave their lives in devoted service.

The attitude of the natives throughout the war was most satisfactory.

Constitution.

In 1888 that portion of Rhodesia now known as Southern Rhodesia was declared to be within the British sphere of influence, and on the 29th October, 1889, a Royal Charter was granted to the British South Africa Company, conferring upon it large powers of administration to carry out the objects for which it was formed.

At an Extraordinary General Meeting of the shareholders of the British South Africa Company, held on the 14th of December, 1899, a resolution was passed agreeing to accept the amendments proposed by Her Majesty's Government to be made in the original Charter of the Company by a Supplemental Charter, and a further resolution was passed approving certain alterations in the original Deed of Settlement of the Company.

The Constitution of Southern Rhodesia, originally laid down by the Charter, was subsequently amended by the Orders in Council of the 9th May, 1891; 30th July, 1891; and 18th July, 1894, the latter being known as the "Matabeleland Order in Council." This Order was revoked by the Southern Rhodesia Order in Council of 1898, which provides for the Administration of the Territory, Legislation, the Preservation of Peace and Order, the Constitution of Courts of Justice, and Native Administration. This Order was amended by several Orders in Council.

By a Proclamation, dated 10th June, 1891, the laws of the Cape Colony in force on that date were adopted for and are administered in Southern Rhodesia as far as the circumstances of the country will permit, unless amended or repealed by the Legislative Council. The laws of the Cape Colony passed subsequent to the 10th June, 1891, do not apply to Rhodesia.

For the administration of justice there is a High Court with civil and criminal jurisdiction, the judges being appointed by the Governor. In the districts there are Magistrates' Courts. Appeals from the High Court lie to the Supreme Court of the Cape of Good Hope, and thence to the Privy Council.

The administrative system of Northern Rhodesia is prescribed by the Northern Rhodesia Order in Council of 4th May, 1911, amended by Northern Rhodesia Orders in Council of 1914 (2), 1915, and 1916.

Clause 33 of the Company's Charter reserved to the Crown the power at the end of twenty-five years from the date of the Charter, and at the end of every succeeding period of ten years, to add to or repeal any of the provisions of the Charter or to enact other provisions in substitution for or in addition to any of its existing provisions. It was further provided that this power should only be exercised in relation to so
much of the Charter as related to administrative and public matters, and failing the exercise of this power the Charter was automatically extended for another ten years.

At the expiration of the first period of twenty-five years, viz., in October, 1914, His Majesty's Government, after ascertaining the views of the Company and of the Legislative Council of Southern Rhodesia, decided to advise the issue of a Supplemental Charter containing a proviso that if during the ensuing ten years the Legislative Council should, by an absolute majority, pass a resolution praying the Crown to establish a responsible government, and should support it by evidence showing that the condition of the Territory, financially and in other respects, was such as to justify this course, it should be lawful for the Crown to make such alterations in the Charter as might be necessary for the purpose.

A Supplemental Charter, giving effect to this arrangement, was issued on 13th March, 1915.

In May, 1920, the Legislative Council passed a resolution praying that responsible government should be established forthwith in Southern Rhodesia. In March, 1921, the Secretary of State for the Colonies appointed a committee, of which Earl Buxton was chairman, to consider certain questions relating to Southern and Northern Rhodesia. The first report of the committee, dealing with Southern Rhodesia, recommended that the question whether that territory was or was not prepared to adopt responsible government should be decided at the earliest possible moment, and that a scheme for responsible government should be drawn up in detail and placed before the electors for their acceptance or rejection, by referendum rather than a general election.

In accordance with the recommendations of the report, the Secretary of State invited a deputation of the elected members of the Legislative Council to discuss with him the drafting of a provisional scheme of responsible government for Southern Rhodesia. The deputation came to London, and after confidential discussions returned to Southern Rhodesia in December, taking with it draft letters patent providing for the constitution of responsible government in that territory. These were shortly afterwards made public by the Secretary of State, who at the same time stipulated that the Government of the Union of South Africa should be approached with the object of ascertaining the terms upon which Southern Rhodesia could be admitted to the Union, and that the alternative policies should in due course be submitted to the people of Southern Rhodesia in the form of a referendum.

The delegation proceeded to Cape Town, and as a result of conferences held by them with General Smuts and his ministers an official memorandum was published on the 31st July, giving the terms which the Government of the Union was prepared to recommend to Parliament for the admission of Southern Rhodesia. The draft letters patent for responsible government and the terms of admission to the Union were placed before the electors at a Referendum on the 27th October, 1922, with the result that 8,774 voted for responsible government and 5,989 for joining the Union—a majority of 2,785 in favour of the former.

On the 12th September, 1923, the 23rd anniversary of the occupation of Mashonaland, the territory was formally annexed to the British Dominions with the title of "Colony of Southern Rhodesia," and on the 1st October following, the Colony was granted by Letters Patent responsible government under a constitution which provides for a legislature consisting of a Legislative Council and a Legislative Assembly of thirty members. Pending the election of the first Legislative Assembly, the constitution provided for the temporary continuance of the existing Legislative Council. Subject to reservations as to the alteration of the constitution, legislation in relation to native affairs and certain other matters, the Legislature may make all laws required for the peace, order and good government of the Colony.

The Governor is empowered to assent to a law passed by the legislature, withhold his assent or reserve the law for signification of the King's pleasure.

Appointments to the office of Minister are made by the Governor. They shall not exceed six in number, one of whom shall be the head of the ministry and is styled the Premier.

The Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Colony is assisted by an Executive Council. A session of the legislature is to be held once at least in every year. The duration of each house will be five years. Women are entitled to vote at elections.

Sir Drummond Chaplin retired from the post of Administrator of Southern Rhodesia on the grant of responsible government, and on the 1st October, 1923, Lieut.-Col. Sir John Robert Chancellor, G.C.M.G., D.S.O., assumed office as Governor and Commander-in-Chief.

Local Government.

Salisbury and Bulawayo were constituted municipalities in October, 1897, Gwelo and Umtali in August, 1914, and Gatooma in August, 1917. Sanitary Boards are appointed for the other principal towns.

Chief Towns.

The chief towns of Southern Rhodesia are Salisbury (the seat of the Government), Hartley, Gatooma, Umtali and Victoria in Mashonaland; and Bulawayo, Gwelo and Selukwe, in Matabeleland. Townships have also been formed at Rusapi, Gwanda, Enkeldoorn, Melsetter, Umvuma and at other places.

Railways.

The Bechuanaland Railways (now Rhodesia Railways, Limited) reached Bulawayo on the 19th October, 1897, and the line to that town was formally opened on the 4th November. An extension of the Beira Railway from Umtali reached Salisbury on the 1st May, 1899, and was opened on the 22nd May. On the 1st August, 1900, the widening of the gauge of the Beira Railway to 3 feet 6 inches, the standard gauge of South Africa, was completed. On the 6th October, 1902, the line was completed between Salisbury and Bulawayo, a distance of 301 miles, thus establishing through communication between Cape Town and Beira (over 2,000 miles). The line passes through the mining districts of Hartley, Queque, Gwelo, Bembezi, etc. The railway from Bulawayo to the Victoria Falls (282 miles) on the River Zambesi was completed in June, 1904, and the further extension northward, via Kalomo, to the Broken Hill Mine, 374 miles from the Falls, was opened for traffic on 1st September, 1906. Another section of the line from Broken Hill to the Congo Border (132 miles) was completed in December, 1909, by the...
Rhodesia-Katanga Junction Railway and Mineral Company, Limited. There is, therefore, through communication between Cape Town and the northern border of Northern Rhodesia, a total distance of 2,149 miles. The Zambesi river is crossed by a bridge 650 feet long, 30 feet wide, and about 420 feet above the level of the water. The structure was formally opened by the late Sir G. H. Darwin, K.C.B., President of the British Association, on the 12th September, 1906.

The total mileage of the Rhodesian Railway Systems (including the Beira Railways) at the end of 1923 was 2,162 miles.

The Trans-Zambezia Railway was officially opened on the 1st July, 1922. The railway is 157 miles in length from its junction at Dondo with the Beira and Mashonaland trunk line, and the total distance from Beira to the Zambezi is 175 miles. The gauge of the line is the same as that of Rhodesia and Nyassaland.

Education.

The number of public and aided schools for European children open in September, 1923, was 141, with 6,267 pupils. The public expenditure on education during the year 1922 was £197,471, and the receipts from fees were £59,959.

The leading feature of the developments in education during the year 1923 was the inauguration of a special school, the object of which is to give to Rhodesian boys a specific training in agriculture, together with a general education which will enable them to take their places in society whether they adopt farming as their work in life or not. This school was opened in January, 1923, on a specially selected site on the Rhodes Matopos Estate, 20 miles from Bulawayo, with an enrolment of 43 boys, all of whom are boarders. The farm is approximately one of 3,000 acres, which includes about 160 acres of irrigated land. The curriculum embraces, besides ordinary school subjects, a course of science, physical, chemical, and biological, adapted to agricultural necessities. It also includes field work in agriculture and the care of large and small stock; and instruction is given in building, carpentry, and metal work.

Native education was provided at 1,002 schools of different grades in the year 1922, all of which were under the control of missionary societies operating in Southern Rhodesia, inspection and financial aid on a capitulation basis being provided by Government. The number of pupils in these schools was 60,335, and the amount of grant earned by them (which is included in the total expenditure of the department) was £16,251. There were also opened at the end of the year 1922 five public and aided schools for Eurafican and Asiatic children. At the end of the year these had a total enrolment of 267 pupils. The expenditure on these schools, also included in the total expenditure of the department, was £2,210, and a revenue of £110 was received from school fees.

Owing to the munificent bequests of the late Cecil Rhodes and Alfred Beit, largely increased educational facilities are now afforded. Scholarships and Bursaries are granted to pupils in the country itself, and to matriculated Rhodesian students who continue their education at the various institutions of university standing in South Africa. In addition, there are nine "Rhodes Scholarships" (three per annum), which enable Rhodesian boys to take a three years' course at the University of Oxford.

Minerals.

GOLD.—That gold was obtained from Rhodesia in prehistoric times is evidenced from the innumerable "ancient workings," the ruins of temples and forts supposed to date from the time of the Himyarites and Phoenicians, and the discovery of gold beads, gold plates, fine chains, wire, nails, etc. From the occupation of the country in 1890 by the British South Africa Company when the European population amounted to about 500 persons, consisting of the pioneers and a few officials, up to September, 1898, the gold produced only amounted to 6,470 ounces. Since that date the mining industry has been greatly developed, and numerous mines are producing gold. Large beds of coal of excellent quality are worked at Wankie, about 212 miles from Bulawayo, and 70 miles from the Victoria Falls on the River Zambezi, and the production of chrome iron ore and of asbestos is of importance in the markets of the world. The following shows the mineral output from Southern Rhodesia to 31st December, 1922:

| Mineral | Output, 1922 | Output, 1921 |
|---------|-------------|-------------|
| Gold, oz | 652,791 | 585,535 |
| Gold, value | £3,111,468 | £2,317,376 |
| Silver, oz | 172,200 | 162,989 |
| Coal raised, tons | 615,030 | 574,753 |
| Chrome Ore, tons | 93,876 | 50,188 |
| Copper, tons | 3,380 | 3,000 |
| Asbestos, tons | 14,249 | 18,529 |
| Mica, tons | 66 | 85 |
| Arsenic, tons | 497 | 361 |
| Diamonds, carats | 256 | 141 |

In addition to the above, lead, tungsten ores, antimony, tin and barytes have been produced. The total value of the mineral production for 1922 amounted to £4,474,583.

The total value of the mineral production from the commencement to 31st December, 1922, amounted to £85,359,328.

Northern Rhodesia.

The total value of the mineral output to 31/12/21 amounted to £2,279,826. Lead and copper were the principal minerals produced.

Native Administration.

The Letters patent provide that there shall be a Native Department of Southern Rhodesia, the permanent head of which shall be appointed by the Governor-in-Council with the approval of the High Commissioner. The department is administered by the Minister for Native Affairs. The duties of the Chief Native Commissioner are defined by High Commissioner's Proclamation No. 32 of 1913.

The Colony is divided into 32 native districts, each in charge of a Native Commissioner, who is appointed by the Governor, with the approval of the High Commissioner, as laid down in the Southern Rhodesia Order in Council, 1898, and whose duties are defined by the High Commissioner's Proclamation, No. 56 of 1910 (promulgated 14th October, 1910).

The estimated population of Indigenous Natives and other natives permanently settled in the Colony was, according to the last returns, 790,234, who are distributed as under:—
On reserves ... ... ... 503,799
On unalienated land ... 163,245
On alienated land ... 161,435
On mines, townships, etc. ... 21,775

790,234

On the recommendations of the special commission (The Native Reserves Commission) appointed by the Imperial authorities, which recommendations His Majesty's Government decided to accept, a total area of 19,428,691 acres was set apart as native reserves for the sole and exclusive use of the native population.

The Order in Council giving effect to the recommendations of this commission, subject to certain minor adjustments, was issued on 10th November, 1920.

The only tax imposed upon the natives is an annual poll tax of £1. on each adult male native, and should such native have more than one wife a further tax of 10s. for each additional wife is payable.

The wages paid to unskilled native labourers vary from 15s. to 3l. per month, with board and lodging.

There is also an increasing number of skilled native artisans, who command a much higher rate of pay.

Posts and Telegraphs.

The mails from the United Kingdom to Southern Rhodesia are conveyed by the mail steamers of the subsidised Union-Castle Company between Southampton and Table Bay. From Cape Town they are conveyed by train to Bulawayo in three days.

The outlying districts of Southern Rhodesia are served by mail coaches, motors, carts, native runners and cyclists.

Northern Rhodesia receives its mails via Bulawayo. They are conveyed from Bulawayo via the Victoria Falls and Broken Hill, to Livingstone by train, and to the several postal stations in the territory by native runners.

On the 31st of December, 1922, 110 post offices were open in Southern Rhodesia, at 37 of which Money Order and Savings Bank business was transacted. Telegraph Money Orders are also exchanged between Money Order Offices in Rhodesia and with the United Kingdom, the Cape Colony, Natal, Transvaal, and the Orange River Colony.

The rate for inland letters is 1½d. per oz., and the same rate to other parts of South Africa. The rate for letters for the Belgian Congo and all foreign countries is 3d. for the first oz. and 1½d. for each additional oz. The rate for letters from the United Kingdom to Rhodesia is 1½d. for the first oz. then 1½d. per oz.

The Rhodesian Telegraph and Telephone system extends from Ramathlabama, on the northern border of Cape Colony, to Ujiji in East Africa, and comprises 10,402 miles of wire, on 3,803 miles of poles.

On the 31st December, 1922, 150 telegraph offices were open. The rate for Inland telegrams is 1s. 6d. for every 12 words and 1½d. or every additional word; for telegrams exchanged between Rhodesia and the Union of South Africa and Northern Rhodesia, 2s. for every 12 words and 2½d. for every additional word. To places within the Mozambique Company's territory, 2s. 6d. for every 12 words and 2½d. for every additional word.

To places on the African Transcontinental Telegraph Line and the Congo, 5s. for every 12 words and 5½d. for every additional word. Cablegrams to Tanganyika Territory, 7s. 6d. for 12 words; to Bukoma, 15s. for 12 words; to Kenya Colony and Uganda, 13s. 6d. for 12 words; to Europe 2s. 2½d. per word; deferred rate, 1s. 1½d. per word; deferred letter cablegrams, 11s. 8½d. for 20 words and 7½s. for each additional word. Telegrams from Europe and from South Africa, for the Portuguese province of Manica and Sofala, Portuguese East Africa (including Chinde and Quilimane), the Nyassaland Protectorate, and North Eastern Rhodesia, all pass over the Rhodesian lines.

Telephone exchanges are in operation at 102 towns and mining centres.

Post Office Savings Banks were established on 1st January, 1905. Up to 31st December, 1922, the amount deposited was 1,612,711l., and the amount withdrawn was 1,509,417l. 159,575l. has been invested in Trustee Securities.

Customs.

Prior to the 1st August, 1899, no duties were leviable upon goods entering Southern Rhodesia. On that date the Customs Ordinance came into operation, and continued in force till August, 1903, when, as a result of the South African Customs Conference, the necessary Ordinance empowering Southern Rhodesia to enter the newly formed Customs Union was unanimously passed by the Legislative Council. This Convention of 1903 was superseded by that of 1906. The Tariff was amended in 1908. On the 30th June, 1910, the Customs Union was terminated by mutual consent, but an agreement has been entered into between Rhodesia and the Union of South Africa, by which the tariff was unaltered.

In August, 1914, "The Southern Rhodesia Order in Council, 1898," was amended by "The Southern Rhodesia (Customs) Amendment Order in Council, 1914."

The chief effect of the Amendment is that Rhodesia is empowered to impose higher import duties than those limited by previous legislation on tobacco and intoxicating liquor, and the imposition of excise and surtax on certain articles manufactured in South Africa and Rhodesia.

Under two Ordinances, Nos. 8 and 9 of 1914, promulgated on 14th August, the duty and excise on intoxicating liquor was raised from 6s. to 12s. a gallon and an excise and surtax were imposed of cigarettes. Under Ordinance No. 15 of 1921, the duty on intoxicating liquor was increased to 32s. 6½d. a gallon.

"The Customs, Tariff and Management Amending Ordinance, 1914," amending the Ordinances of 1906, 1908 and 1910, and a further Ordinance imposing an import and excise duty on beer and matches were promulgated on 13th November, and under these new Customs regulations and tariffs were published setting out Customs duties now leviable.

In 1914 a new Customs Agreement was entered into between the Union of South Africa and the Administrations of Southern and Northern Rhodesia, rendered necessary by the amendment of its Customs tariff by the Union Parliament, and in 1915, a Customs Agreement on similar lines was entered into between Basutoland, the Bechuanaland Protectorate, Southern Rhodesia and Northern Rhodesia.
An Ordinance, amending in some respects the Customs and Excise tariffs and imposing Excise duties upon sugar and playing cards, was promulgated on the 25th June, 1916.

An Ordinance imposing excise duties on tobacco manufactured in this Colony was promulgated on 24th June, 1921.

The estimated value (exclusive of Customs Duty) of merchandise entered for consumption in Southern Rhodesia, as compared with the value of exports, for 1918, and the preceding four years is shown in the table below. In these figures the value of specie and of imported goods re-exported has been excluded.

| Year ended 31st Dec., | Imports | Exports |
|----------------------|---------|---------|
| 1918                 | £3,994,320 | £4,410,955 |
| "                    | £4,500,982 | £4,432,152 |
| 1920                 | £7,212,477 | £5,735,357 |
| 1921                 | £5,091,898 | £4,747,145 |
| 1922                 | £3,764,160 | £4,593,234 |

**Lands and Agriculture.**

In 1897 a geodetic survey of Southern Rhodesia was initiated under the superintendence of the late Sir David Gill, K.C.B., H.M. Astronomer at the Cape of Good Hope, and was completed to the Zambesi river, in August, 1901.

Crown land in Southern Rhodesia may be acquired from the Department of Lands of the Government, subject to simple occupation conditions; the purchase price with interest at 5 per cent. per annum being payable in 40 half-yearly instalments, the first instalment being paid on taking up the land; or payment may be made outright for cash. A provisional deed of title is issued on payment of the first instalment, and a final deed of title on full payment of purchase price. The final title deed gives the purchaser the freehold to the land subject to an annual payment of quit-rent which is approximately 1s. per 50 acres. Applications for land should be addressed to the Director, Department of Lands, Salisbury, Southern Rhodesia. Applications for land in Northern Rhodesia should be addressed to the Secretary, to the Administration, Livingstone, Northern Rhodesia. Information can be obtained from the British South Africa Company, Rhodesia House, 2, London Wall Buildings, E.C. 2, or the Rhodesia Information Office 138 Strand, W.C. 2.

Special travelling facilities are given to bond fide farmer settlers and their wives and families proceeding to Rhodesia for the first time to take up land, and special local railway rates are in force for the benefit of the farming community.

With the approval of the late Administration, a Department known as the Southern Rhodesia Settlers' Board was formed, the members of which include prominent local farmers, businessmen and officials of the Agricultural Department. The Board will supply reliable information and advice regarding available land, arrange preliminary training with established farmers and endeavour to find suitable employment or partnerships for settlers with insufficient capital to start farming independently. The head office of the Board is in Salisbury, but enquiries may, in the first instance, be addressed to the British South Africa Company, Rhodesia House, 2, London Wall Buildings, London, E.C. 2.

Considerable tracts of land have been placed under cultivation, and fresh stock is being imported. It may be said that virtually the whole of Southern Rhodesia is well watered, and adapted for stock-raising and for agriculture. Cattle generally do very well in all parts. Sheep and goats thrive in many parts and will do better after the grass is fed down. Pigs thrive well, and, so far, have never shown disease. Poultry and eggs always command a ready sale at remunerative prices. Throughout the country the conditions of soil and climate are suitable for most European cereals and vegetables, and, in addition, many trees, shrubs and plants peculiar to sub-tropical regions can be successfully cultivated. Maize, Kaffir-corn, and other native cereals grow well in the rainy season without irrigation. Tobacco culture has now passed the experimental stage, and the industry is being rapidly developed. The plant grows luxuriantly, and a considerable acreage is under cultivation. Maize, tobacco, oranges, sunflower and ground-nuts are being exported, and later it is hoped to export other products such as cotton. Large fruit orchards have been planted, and nearly all fruit trees thrive, the cultivation of oranges and lemons constituting a rapidly expanding industry. The sale of dairy produce is a profitable industry. Creameries, a bacon factory, flour mills, candle and soap factories, and oil-expressing plants have been successfully established, and farmers' co-operative societies are in operation in many districts.

In July, 1923, a settlement of the various outstanding questions relating to the Company's position in Southern and Northern Rhodesia was arrived at with His Majesty's Government. The effect of the settlement, which was conditional upon its acceptance by the shareholders and the approval of Parliament, was that the Company surrendered its rights and claims under the judgment of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council relating to Southern Rhodesia, and under the award of Lord Cave's Commission; that it surrendered its buildings and assets used for administrative purposes, and its land and monopoly rights other than mineral rights under its concessions in Northern Rhodesia; that on the other hand the Company would receive on 1st October a cash payment of £3,750,000, from His Majesty's Government, and would retain a half interest for 40 years in the net proceeds of the disposal of land in North-Western Rhodesia, such disposal to be in the hands of the administration of the territory; that it would receive the Crown's recognition of its mineral rights throughout Rhodesia, Southern and Northern, and a considerable measure of protection for its railway interests; and that the Crown would waive its whole claim against the Company in respect of extraordinary military expenditure incurred in the course of the Great War. Subject to the foregoing, the Company would retain the whole of its commercial rights and assets; no further question would be raised as to any liability of the Company in respect of land appropriated for the purpose of its own commercial undertakings or granted to other parties; and the Company would be relieved of the duty of carrying on the administration of Northern as well as of Southern Rhodesia. Consequently no further litigation or proceedings before the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council would be required. At an Extraordinary General Meeting held on the 24th July, 1923, the shareholders unanimously approved the provisional arrangement made with His Majesty's Government, and on the 25th July it was approved by the House of Commons. On
the 1st October the Company received a cash payment from His Majesty's Government of £3,750,000.

Climate.

The Rhodesian plateau lies at an altitude of from 3,000 to 6,000 feet above sea level. Broadly speaking, the year has two divisions, the wet and the dry season. The early rains of the wet season (which is the summer) gradually appear towards the end of October, increase in frequency and force until January, and disappear about the end of April. From May to September there is practically no rain. Taking into consideration the vast extent of the territory the climate naturally varies. In the highlands it is very healthy and bracing. Formerly, in the low-lying districts, malarial fever was very prevalent, but with the opening up of the country, better housing and food, it is rapidly disappearing. The summer is not oppressively hot, nor is the winter very cold. The average temperature shown by the maximum and minimum thermometers in the shade at the principal towns, is as follows:

| Town       | Max °F | Min °F | Mean °F |
|------------|--------|--------|---------|
| Salisbury  | 77     | 53     | 65      |
| Bulawayo   | 78     | 54     | 66      |
| Gwelo      | 78     | 51     | 65      |
| Umtali     | 78     | 56     | 67      |

The mean annual rainfall is 28.1 inches distributed as under:

| Region                  | Normal annual rainfall |
|-------------------------|------------------------|
| Western Matabeleland    | 24.3 ins.              |
| South-Eastern Matabeleland | 21.6 ins.            |
| Western Mashonaland     | 30.6 ins.              |
| North-Eastern Mashonaland | 35.6 ins.           |
| South-Eastern Mashonaland | 33.9 ins.          |
| Eastern Border          | 56.5 ins.              |

There are hospitals at Salisbury, Bulawayo, Umtali, Victoria, Hartley, Mazoe, Gwanda, Enkeldoorn, Gatooma, Abercorn, Sinoa and Gwelo, each supplied with a complete staff of doctors and nurses. Cottage hospitals have also been erected in various districts to meet the wants of the mining centres.

Population.

A census for Southern Rhodesia was taken on the 3rd May, 1921, showing the number of Europeans to be 33,620. The native population was estimated to be 862,319. There were also 3,634 Asiatics and other coloured persons. The European population of Northern Rhodesia on the 3rd May, 1921, was 3,634. The native population is estimated at 979,704.

Revenue and Expenditure (Southern Rhodesia).

| Year       | Revenue (£) | Expenditure (£) |
|------------|-------------|-----------------|
| 1913–1914  | 777,008     | 336,475         |
| 1914–1915  | 718,127     | 243,611         |
| 1915–1916  | 744,629     | 268,964         |
| 1916–1917  | 736,128     | 251,068         |
| 1917–1918  | 737,443     | 290,470         |
| 1918–1919  | 887,800     | 888,913         |
| 1919–1920  | 1,053,306   | 1,082,372       |
| 1920–1921  | 1,367,827   | 1,300,005       |
| 1921–1922  | 1,506,429   | 1,336,041       |
| 1922–1923  | 1,326,469   | 1,357,442       |

Full details as to the administration of Rhodesia, and as to climate and products, with routes to and from Rhodesia, can be obtained at the head offices of the British South Africa Company, Rhodesia House, 2, London Wall Buildings, London, E.C. 2, or at the Company's Emigration and Information Office, 138, Strand, W.C. 2.

Board of Directors of the British South Africa Company.

Rosshfort Maguire, Esq. (President).
P. Lyttelton Gell, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Lewis Michell, C.V.O.
Sir Henry Birchenough, Bart., K.C.M.G.
The Marquess of Winchester.
Sir Otto Beit, K.C.M.G.
Baron E. B. d'Erlanger.
D. O. Malcolm, Esq.
Brig.-Gen. the Hon. E. Baring, C.V.O.
The Duke of Abercorn.
Secretary, A. P. Millar.
Registrar, R. C. Bolton.
Chief Accountant, P. J. Baird, A.C.A.
General Manager in South Africa, Major P. S. Inskipp, O.B.E.

Southern Rhodesia Government.

Governor, Lieut.-Colonel Sir J. R. Chancellor, G.C.M.G., D.S.O., R.E.
Private Secretary, A. R. Hone.
A.D.C., Captain the Hon A. J. Lowther.

Executive Council.

The Governor and Members of the Ministry.
Acting Clerk of Council, A. R. Hone.

Members of the Ministry.

Premier, Sir C. P. J. Coghlan.
Colonial Secretary, Sir F. J. Newton, K.C.M.G., C.V.O.
Treasurer, P. D. L. Fynn.
Attorney General and Minister of Defence, Major R. J. Hudson.
Minister of Mines and Public Works, H. U. Moffat.
Minister of Agriculture and Lands, W. M. Leggate.

Legislative Council.

Major W. J. Boggie, Gwelo.
Sir Charles P. J. Coghlan, Bulawayo North.
Lionel Cripps, Bulawayo.
Capt. W. D. Douglas-Jones, Midland.
R. A. Fletcher, Western.
R. D. Gilchrist, Northern.
F. L. Hadfield, Bulawayo South.
Mrs. E. Tawse Jollie, Eastern.
W. M. Leggate, Salisbury District.
J. B. Macdonald, Hartley.
J. McChlery, Marandellas.
H. U. Moffat, Victoria.
J. Stewart, Salisbury Town.
Clerk of Councils (vacant).
Assistant Clerk of Council, J. G. Jearey.

Premier's Department.

Premier and Minister of Native Affairs, Sir C. P. J. Coghlan.
Acting Secretary, Department of Premier, J. G. Jearey.
Colonial Secretary's Department.

Colonial Secretary, Sir F. J. Newton, K.C.M.G., C.V.O.
Acting Secretary, A. C. Bagahawe.
Chief Clerk, H. J. Nanson.
Medical Director, A. M. Fleming, C.M.G., M.B., F.R.C.S., D.P.H.
Director of Education, L. M. Foggin, M.A.
Controller of Printing and Stationery, A. F. Davis.
Auditor General, R. H. Everett.

Treasurer's Department.

Treasurer, P. D. L. Fynn, C.M.G.
Acting Secretary, A. W. Beadle.
Postmaster-General, A. E. Holloway.
Controller of Customs, A. G. Pett.

Native Affairs Department.

Secretary for Native Affairs, Sir O. P. J. Coghlan.
Chief Native Commissioner, Sir H. J. Taylor.

Superintendents of Natives.

Division I. W. S. Taberer.
II. C. L. Carbutt.
III. F. G. Elliott.
IV. H. M. G. Jackson.
V. S. N. G. Jackson.

Native Commissioners.

Mashonaland:
Bikita, W. G. C. Palgrave
Charter, J. W. Posselt
Chibi, L. F. Bibra
Chilimonzi, J. H. M. Sweeney
Darwin, D. M. Powley
Guta, E. W. Morris
Hartley, L. C. Meredith
Inyanga, W. S. Bazelle
Lomagundi, E. G. Howman
Makoni, D. H. Moodie

Marandellas, F. W. T. Posselt
Mazoe, W. A. Devine
Melsetter, E. T. Kenny
Mrevo, W. Edwards
Mtoko, E. G. Lenthall
Ndanga, E. R. Morkel
Goromonzi, Major B. C.
Neabitt, V.C.
Salisbury, W. S.
Taberer
Umtali, F. G. Elliott
Victoria, C. L. Carbutt

Matabeleland:
Belinguwe, C. Bullock
Bubi, W. E. Farrar
Bulalima-Mangwe, R. Lanning
Bulawayo, H. M. G. Jackson
Gwanda, F. A. Yates
Gwelo, S. N. G. Jackson
Insiza, T. M. Thomas
Director of Native Development, H. S. Keigwin, M.A.

Matopo, O. T. Stuart
Nyamandhlovu, W. S.
Greer
Sebungwe, H. N. Hemans
Selukwe, W. R. Benzies
Umzingwane, A. L.
Jones
Wankie, N. P. M. Nielsen

Legal Department.

Attorney-General and Minister of Defence, R. J. Hudson.
Secretary to the Law Department, L. F. H. Roberts.
Solicitor-General and Judge of Water Court, R. Molwaine, K.C., M.A., LL.B.
Legal Adviser, A. E. Speight, B.A., LL.B.
Legal Assistant, W. E. Thomas, B.A., LL.B.
Registrar of Deeds, Companies, and Patents, G. J. King.
Registrar of Deeds (Bulawayo), A. R. Tonge.

High Court.

Senior Judge, Sir Clarkson H. Tredgold, K.C.
Puisne Judge, A. F. Russell.
Master, Registrar and Sheriff, W. R. Shand.

British South Africa Police.

Commissioner of Police, Col. A. E. Capell, D.S.O.
Controller, Defence Force, Major L. S. Daccombe, O.B.E.
Assistant Controller, Defence Force, Lieutenant F. H. W. Fielden.
Chief Staff Officer, Major G. Parson, D.S.O.
Paymaster for Defence, Capt. E. T. Fox, O.B.E.
Staff Officer to Commissioner, Lieut. A. V. Adams.
Superintendent, C.I.D., and Chief Immigration Officer, Capt. J. C. Brundell.

District Courts and Offices.

Mashonaland:
Civil Commissioner, G. J. King.
Magistrate, P. G. Smith.
Assistant Magistrate, T. C. Fynn.

Enkeldoorn:
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, C. M. Fletcher.
Assistant Magistrate, N. D. Jackson.

Umtali:
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, N. H. Chataway.
Assistant Magistrate, D. Bill.

Melsetter:
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, W. W. Tucker.

Victoria:
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, C.W. Cary.

Hartley:
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, F. J. Clarke.
Assistant Magistrate, J. S. Crossley.

Matabeleland:
Bulawayo:
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, J. P. L. de Smidt.
Assistant Magistrates, A. E. Boyton and M. W. Barnard.

Gwelo:
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, A. L. Baker.
Assistant Magistrate, W. A. Brooks.

Gwanda:
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, F. A. Yates.
Assistant Magistrate, O. H. Harding.

Umuuma:
Assistant Magistrate, H. P. Miles.

Mines and Public Works.

Minister of Mines and Works, H. U. Moffat.
Under Secretary for Mines and Works, G. N. Fleming.
Inspectors of Mines, C. A. B. Colville, H. C. Milton.
Mining Commissioners, E. T. Bolling, C. D. Fleming, B. A. M. Helm, D. McDonald.
Director of Public Works, J. R. Hobson.
Agriculture.

Minister of Agriculture and Lands, W. M. Leggate.
Chief Veterinary Surgeon, J. M. Sinclair, M.R.C.V.S.

Lands.
Surveyor-General, W. J. Atherstone.
Director of Geological Survey, H. B. Maufe.

Cape Town Agency.
Local Secretary, F. B. Philip, M.B.E.

