THE TERRITORY OF NEW GUINEA.

(FORMERLY GERMAN NEW GUINEA).

In 1884, Germany declared a Protectorate over Kaiser Wilhelm Land (the north-eastern part of the Island of New Guinea) and the adjacent Islands of the Bismarck Archipelago, and in later years the Protectorate was extended to the German Solomon Islands, Nauru, and to the Marshall, Caroline, Mariana and Pelew groups, North of the Equator.

The control and development of Kaiser Wilhelm Land was from 1886 to 1899 vested in the German New Guinea Company, which, to all intents and purposes, constituted a Government in itself, and issued its own coinage, but in 1899, the Imperial German Government again assumed control, making annual grants from the Imperial Treasury towards the cost of administration. The seat of Government was at Rabaul in New Britain.

That portion of German New Guinea, which has, since the 12th September, 1914, been administered by Australia, consists of Kaiser Wilhelm Land, the Bismarck Archipelago, and Buka and Bongainville (Solomon Islands). At the meeting of the council of the League of Nations in December, 1920, a mandate to administer these territories was issued to the Commonwealth. The islands North of the Equator are administered by Japan.

During the German regime, German New Guinea was administered by a Governor, who was appointed by the Imperial Crown. He was not assisted by any advisory council; to a great extent the laws of Germany were enforced, these being supplemented by the issue of ordinances by the Governor or higher authority. For better administrative control, the Colony was divided into seven districts, each in charge of a District Officer with certain judicial powers. This system has been adhered to by the Australian authorities.

Geographical Description.

The Mainland of New Guinea (Kaiser Wilhelm Land) is the North East part of New Guinea, having an area of about 70,000 square miles, nearly one third of the whole Island of New Guinea, the balance of which is divided between Holland (Dutch New Guinea), and the British Empire (Papua). It is divided into three districts namely, Aitape, Madang and Morobe, the most important of the three being Madang, with headquarters at Madang (formerly Friedrich Wilhelm Hafen) on Astrolabe Bay.

Possessing a long, but little indented coast line, the mainland has few good harbours, the best being probably Madang and Vanimo Harbour, Sek Harbour, Hatzfeldt Harbour, Monumbo Harbour, and Finsh Harbour, though Morobe Haven on which Morobe is situated is a well protected little port. Aitape is practically an open roadstead, and here, as is the case generally right along the coast, shipping, when desiring to anchor during heavy weather, is forced to do so under the lee of one of the many islands which dot the coast.

In respect of rivers, however, these three districts are more fortunate. The Sepik River in the Aitape district is a fine stream which rises in the mountains of Dutch New Guinea, and has its mouth situated about 70 miles south east of Aitape. For vessels of, up to about 600 tons it is navigable for a distance of over 400 miles from its mouth, whilst vessels of greater size have covered a distance of over 200 miles. The Ramu or Ottilien River, a long but smaller river than the Sepik, rises in the Bismarck Ranges in the Madang District and discharges at a spot not many miles South East from the mouth of the Sepik. In the Morobe District is the Wussi (or Markham) River, which is smaller than the two above-mentioned streams. It flows into the Huon Gulf.

The whole of the Mainland is very mountainous, some peaks rising to a height of about 13,000 feet. One or two of the islands along the
coast are also mountainous, Vulcan Island being an active volcano. The mainland is believed to possess considerable mineral wealth, though, owing principally to the difficulties encountered in inland transport, no extensive mining operations have yet been undertaken. At various points along the coast, large plantations are found and Mission stations exist at many places, but comparatively little is known yet of the interior, though extensive patrols are now despatched from time to time by the Government. These it is anticipated will serve the double purpose of opening up the unknown country, and of bringing the inland native into touch with the representatives of the Government in the various districts.

The Bismarck Archipelago consists of New Britain, New Ireland, the Admiralty Islands and all the smaller adjacent groups of islands such as Lavongai and the Duke of York Group.

New Britain, a long, narrow crescent shaped island is the largest and most important island of the Archipelago. During the German regime it comprised one District with headquarters at Rabaul, but it is now divided into three districts, namely: Rabaul, Gasmata, and Talasea.

The total area of the island is estimated at 13,000 square miles and as the mean breadth is only 50 miles, its extreme narrowness can be easily realized. Despite this, however, except at the northern and western extremities, it has never been crossed by white man. This is due to the fact that a high and very rugged range of mountains runs from one end of New Britain to the other. Little is known of the interior; the natives therefrom are considered, and have often proved to be, very treacherous, but with the vigorous system of patrols instituted during the past few years, and the development of roads into the interior it is hoped that before long, the whole interior will have been explored.

The highest peak in New Britain is an active volcano, The Father, 7,500 feet high, on the north west coast, near which are the two mountains, the North and South Son. Close to Rabaul are three peaks, the Mother and the South and North Daughter, the first named being an extinct volcano.

Volcanic action is very evident throughout New Britain, especially in the north, where, close to Rabaul, are found the Matupi Sulphur Springs situated at the foot of the Mother in Matupi Harbour. Vulcan Island, 193 acres in area, which lies on the south side of Blanche Bay, made its appearance in one night, in 1878, during an eruption from Mount Mother, when violent earthquakes were also experienced. At the present time earth tremors are of frequent occurrence.

Unlike the Mainland, New Britain is fortunate in possessing several good harbours, the best being Simpson Harbour, the inlying portion of Blanche Bay; others are Jacquinot Bay, Arawe, Linden Harbour and Powell Harbour on the south-east and south coasts and Rein Bay and Talasea Harbor on the north coast.

There are no rivers of any importance in the island, those that do exist being short rapid-flowing streams.

Rabaul is situated upon Simpson Harbour, which is horse-shoe in shape, with good depths, well protected from winds and weather, and affords a most excellent anchorage for overseas shipping.

The bulk of the white population of New Britain has grouped itself in or near Rabaul, though settlers with coconut plantations, have operated at various suitable points practically round the whole coast line.

New Ireland lies close and practically at right angles to the northern end of New Britain. It is a long narrow Island, very mountainous, without any rivers of size, and geologically older than New Britain. The volcanic appearances so definite in the latter island are not evident in New Ireland. Its coast line is fairly unbroken and its best harbours are at Kavieng, Namatanai and Muliana on the north and east coasts and Kalili on the west coast. Crossings of the island have been made from time to time in several places, and here and there very fair roads exist.

New Ireland is divided into a northern and a southern district, the former, which includes the island of Lavongai being known as Kavieng District, and the latter Namatanai District. Kavieng is a substantial little tropical town with good Government Buildings. During recent years a Government Wharf capable of berthing ships of 2,000 tons has been built.

For some years, concern has been felt at the rapid decrease of the native population of New Ireland. This was believed to be to a great extent attributable to the fact that too many men were being recruited for labour in other parts of the Territory; and for several years some parts of the island was closed against recruiting.

The Admiralty Islands comprise a small group lying about 380 miles to the north west of Rabaul, and constitute the district of Manus, with headquarters at the principal port, Lorungau, situated on the north east corner of the island of Manus, which is the largest of the group and of the same rugged mountainous type as its neighbours, New Britain and New Ireland, though apparently free from volcanoes. It is only recently that government patrols have succeeded in pushing their way right across Manus, thus gaining some idea of the interior. What rivers exist are naturally small and unimportant. Several useful though small harbours provide good anchorages for small shipping which touches at these islands.

To the north west of the Admiralty Islands, at a distance of about 200 miles, are the three small groups, the Ninigo, Hermit and Anchorite Islands, better known as the North Western Islands. A particularly fine type of native is found inhabiting these Islands. The groups contain no harbours, excepting in the lagoons at The Hermit and Ninigo Groups; and in most cases depths ranging to about 200 fathoms are found close inshore, rendering it impossible for vessels to anchor while loading copra, of which a fair quantity is produced.

It is in the waters adjacent to the Admiralty Islands that most of the shell fishing in the Territory is carried on, trochus and gold-lip being obtained in large quantities.

The Solomon Islands.—Germany's share of the Solomon Islands consisted of the islands of Bougainville and Buika, which constitute the district of Kieta, their total area being about 3,400 square miles.

These two islands are very mountainous, particularly Bougainville, where there are found several volcanoes. Mount Balbi, a peak in the Emperor Range in the centre of the Island, with a height of over 10,000 feet, is a dormant volcano, whilst Mount Bagana, in the Crown Prince Ranges is at the present time an active crater.
There are several good harbours along the coast, the principal being Kieta on the East coast of Bougainville. This is a very well protected bay, almost landlocked, with its entrance protected by a well defined coral reef. Shipping of fair draught finds a suitable anchorage close inshore to the little town of Kieta. Other good harbours are found at Rava and Tinpute, also at Carola Haven on Buika Island.

The interior of Bougainville was practically unknown, but during 1919, it was partially explored by Australian patrols, and a well equipped expedition commenced to construct a road which will ultimately link up the Eastern and Western sides of the Island. It will then be possible to get into touch with the tribes of the interior which at present are principally notable for their aggressive attitude towards white men.

Agriculture, etc.

The Territory comprises some 60 million acres of land, most of which is capable of cultivation under tropical staples. Of this area, about 700,000 acres are alienated, and 173,272 are under cultivation.

In the many islands of the Archipelago and the North-East New Guinea, land of all kinds is to be met with, from coral atolls to granite peaks. A considerable portion is flat and comparatively low lying, with soil ranging from sand to light sandy loam, usually overlying a sub-soil of broken coral—ideal for coconuts, with which much has been planted.

Larger islands, while they frequently have a margin, or at least stretches of soil similar to the above, rise into undulating foot-hills, with or without peaks and headlands. On these the soil is of a heavier nature, ranging from sedimentary deposits to rich, and in some cases, comparatively recent, volcanic soils. Still larger islands, which often have a range of hills as a backbone, and areas of swamp near the coast, have soils grading from light sand to rich heavy clays. Many of these are well watered with creeks and rivers, in the valleys of which the richest of alluvial soils are to be met with, capable of growing anything.

Not only is the Territory particularly favoured in the matter of soils and rainfall, but the fact that it is outside the cyclone and hurricane belts, enables agricultural industries to be undertaken with greater security than many places afford.

At present the Territory is entirely dependent upon the one industry of agriculture, and almost entirely on the one staple of coconuts for the manufacture of copra. There are at present, some 350 to 400 coconut plantations opened, owned and worked by Europeans, of an average area of between four and five hundred acres, scattered through the Archipelago.

Other staples being cultivated to a smaller extent are, in about the order mentioned, cocoa, rubber, coffee, tobacco, arrowroot and kapok, often in conjunction with coconuts or each other.

The mineral wealth of the islands can only be surmised. Gold is known to exist, especially in N.E. New Guinea whilst mineral oil has been found although as yet not in commercial quantities. Sulphur is obtainable, whilst it is believed that copper and nickel deposits exist. The transport difficulty has proved a very effectual bar to the efforts of prospectors up to the present; and it is only with the expenditure of considerable capital that any venture is likely to be successful until the country has been opened up.

The shell fishing industry is one that cannot be overlooked when assessing the commercial value of the colony. Large quantities of trochus, green snail, gold-lip and black-lip are obtained yearly and the revenue obtained therefrom, which includes a royalty, is considerable. The value of marine products exported from the Territory in five years ended 30th June, 1923, averaged over 20,000/- a year.

Climate and Health.

The climate, and particularly the rainfall over so widely spread a group of islands, must naturally vary considerably in different parts. Generally speaking, the rainfall is plentiful and reliable. A N.W. monsoon period between December and February; and a S.W. between March and November are experienced. The latter, during which steady trade winds occur, and the islands are seldom without a breeze, constitutes the cooler and more pleasant portion of the year. No especial dry belts exist, and droughts of more than a few months' duration are unknown.

The average rainfall for the Territory may be taken as 100 to 125 inches per annum. The following are the averages for the districts:

- Rabaul, New Britain ... 86°19
- Aitape, New Guinea ... 86°1
- Madang, New Guinea ... 146°30
- Kavieng, New Ireland ... 123°71
- Manus, Admiralty Islands ... 140°14
- Kokopo, New Britain ... 95°70
- Morobe, New Guinea ... 98°50
- Kieta, Bougainville ... 129°59
- Namatanai, New Ireland ... 117°4
- Gaamatta, South New Britain ... 254°54

The following are results of observations taken at Rabaul, the capital, on the Island of New Britain, about 4½ degrees south of the equator, from 1916 to 1923:

- Shade temperature—
  - Average monthly mean ... 81°3° F.
  - Yearly average rainfall ... 86°19 ins.

Many settlers, after a few years, affirm that the climate is pleasant, and certainly the lure of the tropics is no myth to those who have the temperament. For all this, the climate is tropical, and is not to be treated with disdain. Reasonable care and the exercise of common sense, with due attention to hygiene, are necessary to avoid the effects of malaria and other tropical ailments that any neglect of precautions render practically inevitable.

Malarial fever offers the principal obstacle to white colonists in this territory, some parts of the islands being more subject to the ravages of the fever than others. The efforts of the Australian medical authorities have met with great success, and the percentage of people suffering regularly from malaria has gradually decreased from year to year. In Rabaul, where much work has been performed on sanitation and bush clearing around the town, the malarial carrier, the anophelean mosquito, has been almost eliminated, with the result that malaria cases are at present few and far between. The man who suffers is of course the planter living in places remote from the activities of the medical authorities. Elephantiasis makes an appearance occasionally amongst the native population; and, as is the case in most tropical countries, dysentery and tubercular diseases yearly claim a number of victims from the colored races.
Constant care has to be exercised to prevent the introduction of epidemic diseases, such as smallpox, influenza or measles, the latter of which, while comparatively harmless among white races, becomes calamitously destructive among the careless living slightly clad natives.

Native Population.

Head-taxes are collected every year and a census is taken regularly in the parts of the Territory under Government influence. The total native population is estimated at 400,000. The non-native population is 2,979.

Generally speaking the New Guinea aborigine is of a good type, well built, and, when civilised, very amenable to discipline. As a rule he is fairly stolid, though flashes of brilliance are found amongst members of some of the tribes. In every island the different branches or tribes appear to be innumerable, and even at short distances it is found that great physical differences occur in the types; while tribes only ten or twelve miles from each other often speak totally different dialects. The result is that interpretation is very difficult for travellers or for the natives amongst themselves, but throughout the colony the use of "pidgin" English has become so established, that even the Germans spoke "pidgin" English to their labourers. Natives are recruited for many purposes; they make good plantation labourers, boats' crews, or domestic servants, whilst many who have received special training have become adept artisans. The German Government had commenced a technical school for natives at Rabaul. This school has been continued by the Australian Authorities who have also established a School of Domestic Economy at Rabaul, and an Elementary School at Kokopo.

Work of this nature is also carried out by the Missions.

Communications.

Between Rabaul and the various islands a line of small steamers maintains a regular service, carrying mails and stores to the outlying districts, and loading with copra, etc., for transhipment at Rabaul, prior to shipment to Australia.

Regular communication is maintained to and from Australia:

Australia—Solomon Islands and Rabaul . . . 5 weekly.
Rabaul . . . 5 .

Telegraphic communication is well maintained throughout the group by a system of wireless stations, some of which had been installed by the German Government.

Revenue and Expenditure.

| Year    | Revenue   | Expenditure |
|---------|-----------|-------------|
| 1922-23 | £269,286  | £250,431    |
| 1923-24 | £248,743  | £268,337    |

Trade.

| Year    | Imports   | Exports     |
|---------|-----------|-------------|
| 1917-18 | £268,040  | £404,504    |
| 1918-19 | £271,861  | £269,666    |
| 1919-20 | £506,767  | £849,422    |
| 1920-21 | £651,441  | £673,992    |
| 1921-22 | £468,711  | £499,197    |
| 1922-23 | £516,456  | £630,892    |

Civil Administration.

The following are the names of the principal officials of the Civil Administration, which came into force on the 9th May, 1921:

Central Administration.
Administrator, Brig.-Gen. Evan A. Wisdom, C.B., C.M.G., D.S.O., V.D.
Government Secretary, H. H. Page.

Legal Department.
Chief Judge, D. S. Wanliss, C.M.G.
Crown Law Officer, G. Hogan.

Treasury (Taxation).
Treasurer, H. O. Townsend.

Audit Branch.
Local Auditor, M. C. Meeking.

Customs and Trade Department.
Collector of Customs, E. F. Phibbs.

Native Affairs Department.
Commissioner, H. C. Cardew.

Government Stores.
Superintendent, J. E. Savage, M.B.E., M.C.

Department of Lands and Survey.
Acting Secretary, J. H. Hunt.

Harbour Master's Department.
Harbour Master, J. C. Graham.

Post and Telephones Department.
Postmaster, E. K. Abraham.

Department of Health.
Chief Medical Officer, Dr. R. W. Alento (acting)

Department of Agriculture.
Director, G. Bryoe, B.Sc.

Government Printing Department.
Government Printer, H. W. Hamilton.

Expropriation Board.
Chairman, Walter Lucas.
Deputy-Chairman, F. R. Jolley.
Finance Member, J. T. Pinner.

District Offices.

Rabaul.
District Officer, J. Walstab.
Deputy District Officers, W. J. Townsend, L. I. Hore.

Karieng.
District Officer, A. J. Hunter.
Deputy District Officer, R. Melrose.

Madang.
District Officer, D. Waugh.
Deputy District Officer (vacant).

Kieta.
District Officer, T. L. McAdam.
Deputy District Officer, C. Faulkner (acting).
Namatanai.
District Officer, J. T. Kenny.

Manus.
District Officer (vacant).
Deputy District Officer (vacant).

Aitape.
District Officer, E. M. Bastard.
Deputy District Officer, G. Appleby.

Morobe.
District Officer, E. Taylor.

Gasmata.
District Officer, S. S. Skeate.

Talasea.
District Officer, H. G. Cunningham (acting).

