CYPRUS.

Situation and Topography.

The island of Cyprus is situated in the easternmost basin of the Mediterranean Sea, with Asia Minor to the north of it, and Syria to the east, at distances of 60 and 41 miles respectively. It lies between $34^\circ 30'$ and $35^\circ 41'$ N. latitude, and between $32^\circ 15'$ and $34^\circ 35'$ E. longitude. The port of Larnaka on the southern coast is 258 miles from Port Said, and 1,117 miles from the harbour of Valletta in Malta.

The island is now for the first time being systematically surveyed, and its area is estimated at 4,000 square miles. It is the third largest island in the Mediterranean, being only exceeded in size by Sicily and Sardinia. Its greatest length from west-south-west to east-north-east, between Cape Dropano and Cape St. Andrea, is about 140 miles, and its greatest breadth from north to south is about 60 miles. The greater part of the island consists of an irregular parallelogram of about 100 miles long, and from 60 to 38 miles broad; the remainder consisting of a peninsula 40 miles long, and from 10 to 8 miles broad, called the Carpas, and ending in Cape St. Andrea. The ancients compared the island, in shape, to the outspread skin of a deer.

The main topographical features of the island are the northern and southern mountain chains, and the great plain of the Messoria extending between them across the island from the Bay of Morfu to that of Famagusta. The northern range, called the Carpas Mountains, and, towards their western extremity; the Kyrenia Mountains, forms a continuous chain bordering the northern shore from Cape S. Andrea to Cape Kormakit, a distance of about 100 miles. The southern range, which is the more extensive and lofty of the two, occupies the western and south-western portions of the island, and trending thence along the south coast, terminates in the isolated peak called Monte S. Croce, about 12 miles west of Larnaka. The highest summit of this range is Mount Troodos, 6,590 feet above the sea level, and on its south-eastern slopes have been established the summer quarters of the English troops, and the summer residence of the High Commissioner who administers the Government.

The rivers of Cyprus are nearly all mountain torrents, dry in summer. None are navigable. The principal river is the Pedias, which rises in the southern range, and flows north-north-east and east through the Messoria plain into the sea about 4 miles north of Famagusta. Near its mouth extensive marshes have been formed, and it can hardly be said at present to have any defined mouth. The Idalia, the second river of Cyprus, also flows through the Mesaoria.

History

Cyprus was colonized by Phoenicians, Egyptians, and Greeks. Its ancient history is too long and eventful to be here related even in the briefest outline. When the Roman Empire came to be divided into east and west, Cyprus fell into the Eastern Empire, and remained under the government of lieutenants of the Byzantine Emperors until 1191, when Richard I of England invaded the island to chastise the ruler for the ill-treatment of his fleet. Richard sold the island in 1192 to the Templars, but as they could neither govern it, nor fulfil the terms of the sale, the king made it over to Guy de Lusignan, ex-King of Jerusalem, who promised to take upon himself the obligations of the Templars. The island was ruled by the Lusignan family from 1192 until 1489, when the widow of the last king of the Lusignan dynasty yielded the government of the island to the Republic of Venice, of which she herself was a subject. Venice ruled the island until 1571, when the Ottoman Turks invaded it, and captured and put to the sword the Venetian garrisons.

The island remained under the government of the Sultans of Constantinople from 1571 until 1878, with the exception of the period from 1832 to 1840, when it was in the occupation of the Pasha of Egypt, who was at war with the Porte. It may be observed that the island was frequently invaded by the Arabs, Saracens, and Egyptians before its final conquest by the Turks, and that from 1425 to 1571, it paid tribute to Egypt. The great fortress and port of Famagusta was held by the Genoese Republic from 1373 until 1463, when the Lusignan King retook it with the help of the Egyptians.

Population.

The population of the several districts is as follows:—Nicosia, 56,081; Famagusta, 38,139; Larnaka, 20,691; Limassol, 29,218; Papho, 28,463; Kyrenia, 13,819. The total population is 185,906, of whom the Moslems form about one-fourth, the rest being nearly all Christians of the Greek Church.

Towns.

The chief towns of Cyprus are Nicosia, the seat of government, with a population of 11,555, Larnaka, with a population of 7,827, and Limassol, with a population of 5,994. Both the latter places are on the sea, but are merely roadsteads. At Famagusta, on the east, it has often been proposed to construct a great commercial and naval harbour; but at present the town is little more than a collection of ruins encircled by fortifications, and it has no more than 657 inhabitants, nearly all Moslems. Veroscha, a suburb of Famagusta, has a population of 1,914, nearly all Christians. The town and neighbourhood of Famagusta are unhealthy, owing to the existence of marshes. The four towns already mentioned are the capitals of four of the six administrative provinces into which the island is divided—the other two capitals being Kitma, the modern capital of Papho, on the south-west, and Kyrenia, in the district of the same name, on the north coast. The latter port has some trade with the opposite coast of Karamania.
Industry.

Cyprus was in ancient times famous for its mines, but they have not been worked recently, and its wealth, such as it is, consists in its agricultural produce, chiefly corn, cotton, carobs (locust-beans), olives, silk and wine. The common wines are for the most parts exported to Syria, Egypt, Turkey, and Trieste; but both the common and the richer wines are also exported to France, to be used in giving strength and flavour, to the fruit of poor vineyards. Cyprus wine is somewhat heady for ordinary use, and its value in commerce has been lessened by its tarry flavour, derived from the practice of carrying it to port in tarred skins.

The agricultural prosperity of the island is greatly retarded by want of water, and by locusts. The rainfall is somewhat deficient in the whole, and what there is, in great part goes to waste, from the unfortunate configuration of the country, the want of trees, and the lack of intelligent activity on the part of the peasants in its storage and distribution.

The work of locust destruction has been vigorously prosecuted for the last two years, chiefly on what is known as the "screen and pit system." These screens are stretched across the country in front of the armies of young locusts on the march, and as they are topped with oilcloth, the locusts are unable to get over them, and are gradually forced into pits dug at intervals transversely to the screens, from which they cannot emerge, as they are topped with a zinc lining.

It is estimated that on the average only one-third of the cultivable land in Cyprus is actually brought under cultivation in any one year.

Cyprus has greatly suffered from the extensive destruction of its forests, but what remains of them is reported to be recovering under the better care now bestowed thereon.

British Occupation.

On the 4th June, 1878, a Convention was signed at Constantinople between the representatives of Her Britannic Majesty and the Sultan of Turkey, by which England engaged to join the Sultan in defending his Asiatic possessions against Russia in certain contingencies, and the Sultan, "in order to enable England to make necessary provision for executing her engagements," consented "to assign the Island of Cyprus, to be occupied and administered by England." On the 1st of July an Annex to this Convention was signed at Constantinople, in explanation of the conditions of the occupation. The following is the English official version of its provisions:

"I. That a Mussulman religious Tribunal (Mehkemé Shérí) shall continue to exist in the island, which will take exclusive cognizance of religious matters, and of no others, concerning the Mussulman population of the island.

"II. That a Mussulman resident in the Island shall be named by the Board of Pious Foundations in Turkey (Evkaf) to superintend, in conjunction with a Delegate to be appointed by the British Authorities, the administration of the property, funds, and lands belonging to mosques, cemeteries, Mussulman schools, and other religious establishments existing in Cyprus.

"III. That England will pay to the Porte whatever is the present excess of revenue over expenditure in the island; this excess to be calculated upon and determined by the average of the last five years, stated to be 22,936 purses, to be duly verified hereafter, and to the exclusion of the produce of State and Crown lands let or sold during that period.*

"IV. That the Sublime Porte may freely sell and lease lands and other property in Cyprus belonging to the Ottoman Crown and State (Arzazi Miriyé vé Emlaki Houmayaoun), the produce of which does not form part of the revenue of the island referred to in Article III.

"V. That the English Government, through their competent authorities, may purchase compulsorily, at a fair price, land required for public improvements, or for other public purposes, and land which is not cultivated.

"VI. That if Russia restores to Turkey Kars and the other conquests made by her in Armenia during the last war, the Island of Cyprus will be evacuated by England, and the Convention of the 4th of June, 1878, will be at an end."

Government.

On the 14th September, 1878, an Order in Council was issued for the regulation of the government of the island. The administration was placed in the hands of an officer, styled High Commissioner; a Legislative Council was established, to consist of the High Commissioner and not less than four, and not more than eight other members, half to be officials, and half to be inhabitants not holding office. The latter were appointed to seats in Council for two years, and were eligible for re-appointment. An Executive Council was also established, and the High Commissioner was invested with the powers of pardon, appointment, suspension from office, &c., &c., usually conferred upon a Colonial Governor. So much of this Order in Council as relates to the Legislative Council has been superseded by another, dated the 30th Nov., 1882, by which the Legislature is to consist of the High Commissioner, who is usually to preside, six non-elective Members, being office-holders, and twelve elected Members, three to be chosen by the Mahometan and nine by the non-Mahometan inhabitants of the Island. British subjects and foreigners who have resided five years in Cyprus can exercise the franchise, and are eligible for election as well as Ottoman subjects. The qualification for the franchise consists in the payment of any class of the taxes called Verghi. Judges are not eligible for election. The Council may be dissolved by the High Commissioner whenever he sees fit, and must be dissolved at the end of five years. The first Council is to be dissolved not later than the end of three years from its first election. The island, for legal and administrative purposes, is divided into six districts, namely— Famagusta, Nicosia, Larnaka, Limassol, Kyrenia, and Papho.* In each the Government is represented by a Commissioner. The courts which were in existence at the time of the occupation have been superseded by a new set of courts constituted by an Order of Her Majesty in Council, dated the 30th November, 1882, which provides for:

(1) A supreme court of criminal and civil appeal, consisting at present of two judges.

(2) Six assize courts, having unlimited criminal jurisdiction, and consisting of one or more judges of the supreme court, sitting with one or more judges of the district courts.

(3) Six district courts, having criminal jurisdiction up to three years' imprisonment, and unlimited civil jurisdiction; and consisting of a President and two ordinary Members, one a Christian and the other a Moslem.

* The exercise of these rights by the Porte was agreed to be abandoned, from the 1st of April, 1879, for a payment of £5,000 a year.
(4) Six Magistrates' courts, consisting of the President of the district court or the two ordinary Members.

(5) Village courts, at present ten in number, and having jurisdiction in cases of commonage, disputes as to the partition of property, and debt, &c., up to £1l.

Actions in the courts are divided into "Ottoman" and "Foreign" actions, according to the nationality of the defendant or defendants, and in "Foreign" actions the President of the court alone generally exercises jurisdiction; as also in criminal cases against non-Ottomans.

The courts of Mekhémé-i-Shéria, presided over by Cadi's, are kept alive, but are strictly confined to jurisdiction in religious cases affecting the Mahometan population, as contemplated by the Anglo-Turkish Convention.

The principal sources of revenue in Cyprus are:

1. Verghi Taxes—Consisting of—
   (1) A tax of 4 per cent. on the capital value of lands or houses occupied by the owner.
   (2) A tax of 4 per cent. on the annual rent of lands or houses let.
   (3) A tax of 3 per cent. on trade profits or salaries.

2. Military exemption tax of 2s. 6d. a head on males.

3. Tithes of the principal products of the island, assessed in money.

4. Sheep, goat, and pig tax.

5. Import duties, generally of 8 per cent. ad valorem, and wharfage, port, and health dues.

6. An excise on wine, spirits, and tobacco.

7. Stamps, court fees, royalties, licences, &c., &c.

8. Salt monopoly.

All exemptions formerly enjoyed by foreigners have been abolished, except that from the military exemption tax. The military exemption tax itself is now payable by Moslems and Christians alike. Certain tithes on minor articles have been abolished, and also on caroobs and silk cocoons; but in the case of the two latter articles a 10 per cent. export tax has been imposed instead of tithe. All other export duties, and a fishing tax, have been abolished by the British Administration.

There is a military police force of about 700 men, mostly Moslems.

Archaeology.

Cyprus is remarkable for its mediæval architectural remains, and the vast quantity of antiquities in the shape of coins, inscriptions, ornament-, statues, and pottery, which have been discovered. A famous collection of Cypriot antiquities, that of General di Cesnola, the late United States Consul, is in the Metropolitan Museum at New York. A local museum has been lately started by subscription.

Grant in Aid from Parliament.

| Year    | Amount |
|---------|--------|
| 1878-79 | £8,000 |
| 1879-80 | 26,000* |
| 1880-81 | 20,000 |
| 1881-82 | 78,000 |
| 1882-83 | 90,000 |

General Local Revenue and Expenditure.

| Year    | Income | Expenditure |
|---------|--------|-------------|
| 1879-80 | £148,360 | £117,445 |
| 1880-81 | 156,095 | 119,416 |
| 1881-82 | 168,732 | 157,672 |

Sums payable to Turkey, 92,686l. a-year.

* For the support of the "Cyprus Police Augmentation Force" exclusively.

Imports and Exports.

| Year | Imports | Exports |
|------|---------|---------|
| 1878 | £177,651 | £157,328 |
| 1879 | 208,407 | 222,218 |
| 1880 | 272,668 | 209,905 |
| 1881 | 296,868 | 266,610 |

List of Principal Officials.

High Commissioner, Maj.-Gen. Sir R. Biddulph, R.A., K.C.M.G., C.B., 4,000l.

Private Secretary, H. M. Sinclair, R.E., 300l.

Aide-de-Camp.

Chief Secretary to Government, Col. F. G. E. Warren, R.A., C.M.G., 1,200l.

Assistant to Chief Secretary, C. A. King Harman, 360l. (with lodging allowance of 54l.)

1st Clerk, G. Smith, 180l.

2nd " R. S. Lake, 150l.

3rd " F. R. H. Thomas, 132l.

4th " L. A. Mamo, 92l.

Translator of Turkish Documents, A. Utidjian, 300l.

Translator of Greek Documents, J. Pierides, 180l.

Assistant Translator of Turkish Documents, T. Moldorack, 150l.

Executive Council.

The Officer for the time being second in Command of the Troops.

Col. F. G. E. Warren, R.A., C.M.G.

W. Corby.

W. R. Collyer.

Clerk, H. M. Sinclair, 150l.

Legislative Council.

President, Sir R. Biddulph.

Non-Elective Members, Col. F. G. E. Warren, R.A., C.M.G.

W. R. Collyer.

W. Corby.

S. Brown.

Lieut.-Col. A. H. A. Gordon.

Dr. F. C. Heidenstam.

Elected Members, 3, elected by Mahometans,

9, elected by non-Mahometans.

(Not yet chosen.)

Clerk, H. M. Sinclair, R.E., 150l.

Courts of Justice.

Supreme Court—

Chief Justice, Elliot C. Bovill, 1,000l.

Puisne Judge, W. J. Smith, 750l.

District Courts—

President, Larnaca, G. C. Walpole, 600l.

Nicosia, M. B. Seager, 550l.

Limassol, J. T. Middleton

Famagusta, A. F. Law

Paphos, W. Reith

Kyrenia, F. G. Templar, 450l.

Queen's Advocate, W. R. Collyer, 750l.

District Commissioners.

Commissioner, Nicosia, Maj. J. Inglis (acting), 600l., quarters or allowance.

Commissioner, Larnaka, C. D. Cobham, 600l., quarters or allowance.

Assistant Commissioner, R. Fisher, 365l., quarters or allowance.

Commissioner, Limassol, Roland L. N. Michell, 600l., quarters or allowance.

Commissioner, Kyrenia, Captain A. Scott Stevenson, 480l., quarters or allowance.

Commissioner, Paphos, H. L. Thompson, 500l., quarters or allowance.

Assistant Commissioner, Merton King (acting), 360l., quarters or allowance.

Commissioner, Famagusta, A. H. Young (acting), 540l., quarters or allowance.
NOTE AS TO BOUNDARIES.

The boundaries of the Transvaal have in certain parts not been accurately defined, not made the subject of satisfactory agreement with the Native Tribes; and no two geographers have traced them alike. It would be confusing to show on the accompanying map the boundary line of each geographer; and it will suffice to indicate what were the limits assigned to the Republic by the German Geographer Petermann in his Map of 1870 (light red), and what are the additions claimed for the Transvaal in the Maps of 1877-8 by Mr. Jeppe, the local geographer (which are shown in medium red).

This Map represents the extent of the Transvaal Territory under British Administration until the 8th of August, 1881. The Boundaries of the Transvaal State, as defined by the Convention, do not include Swaziland nor the Western portion of the Districts of Marico and Bloemhof.
The Transvaal Territory lies between the 22nd and 28th parallel of south latitude, and the 25° and 30½° east longitude. It may be said generally to be bounded by the Orange River, the Lebombo Mountains, the Limpopo River, and the Kalahari Desert; but the boundaries remain in some directions still undefined. The area is about 114,000 square miles.

The southern portion of the territory is traversed from west to east by a high plateau, which forms the watershed between the rivers running south and those running north, of which the chief are respectively the Vaal and the Limpopo. Besides this elevated plateau, called the Hooge Veldt, there are three mountain ranges which cross the country from west to east, of which the most northerly and important is called the Zoutpansberg, in the district of the same name. Detached ranges, which are continuations of the Drakensberg Mountains, extend from the Natal boundary to the Oliphant's River, north of Lydenburg, in the eastern districts. These rise in places to an elevation of 7,000 feet.

The country is well watered, and rich in springs, and the surface soil is covered with a sword of a particularly good quality, affording pasturage for horses, sheep, and cattle. In the southern districts the habit has existed of burning off the grass in the dry winter season, on the ground that it improved the pasturage. This practice has produced a great scarcity of shrubs and trees. In the middle and north parts of the country vegetation is plentiful and luxuriant, and there still exist some extensive forests, the principal of which are the Pongola Bush, in Utrecht, and the Houtbosch in Zoutpansberg, in which latter forest ebony and mahogany trees have been found, of considerable height and dimensions.

All the districts of the Colony are well adapted for cattle breeding and the growth of cereals. In the south, also, that is in Potchefstroom, South Pretoria, Heidelberg, New Scotland, Middelberg, Wakkerstroom, and Utrecht, horses can be bred, but in the middle and north districts, such as North Pretoria, Lydenburg, Zoutpansberg, and Waterberg, the conditions are unfavourable for breeding horses, as also for breeding small stock. These latter districts are suitable to the production of sugar-cane, coffee, and cotton. The Transvaal is rich in minerals, such as gold, copper, lead, cobalt, iron, and coal. Auriferous quartz was discovered by a German traveller, in 1868, in a range of hills north of the Oliphant's River, afterwards called Murchison's Ranges. In 1873, alluvial gold was found in the district of Lydenburg, where there is now a digging population of some hundreds. Gold has also been found at Buffelspoort Farm, in the district of Waterberg, on the Crocodile and Komati Rivers, at Schoenspruit, in the district of Marico, on the town lands of Pretoria, and at Marabastad, where the gold mine is worked by an English company.

There are at present no statistics to show the extent of the trade of the country.

History.

The first European settlers in the Transvaal Territory were emigrant Cape farmers. The original destination of these emigrants was Natal, but upon the annexation of Natal to the English Crown, most of them left the new district, and turning back over the Drakensberg went, some to the Orange River Territory, and others to the country beyond the Vaal. In 1848 British sovereignty was extended over the Orange River Territory, but no attempt was made by the British Government to exercise authority over its unwilling subjects beyond the Vaal, and in January, 1852, a treaty was made with them, containing a promise that they would not be interfered with in the management of their own affairs. This treaty is known as the Sand River Convention. The emigrants at the time formed three independent communities, which did not unite until 1858, when they adopted for themselves the name of the South African Republic. After 15 years of somewhat chequered history, the people of the Transvaal elected as President the Rev. Thomas Burgers, a clergyman of the Dutch Reformed Church, from the Cape Colony, and high hopes were entertained by many for the future of the Republic under his guidance. These hopes were not fulfilled. Misfortunes followed one another in rapid succession, and only ended with the collapse of the Government, and the extinction of the Republic.

The President early conceived the project of a railway to be made from Delagoa Bay into the Republic, to carry its produce profitably to the sea and to promote this project he visited Europe.
in 1875, concluded a treaty with Portugal and essayed to launch a loan of 300,000l. in Amsterdam, of which, however, only about 74,000l. were subscribed. This money he spent in buying plant for the proposed railway, part of which is now lying at Delagoa Bay. In the meantime the provisional Government of the Republic had drifted into a dispute with the Zulu King, Cetywayo, touching the boundary of Utrecht Province; and on his return the President himself engaged, first in a dispute with, and then in actual military operations against Sikukuni, a Bechuana chief living on the north-east of the Republic, whose country was claimed under an ambiguous and not very intelligible treaty in the Dutch language, to which some Boers had obtained the assent of Sikukuni's father in the year 1857. The operations against Sikukuni, which were upon a large scale looking to the resources of the Republic, and were directed in person by the President, ended in failure. The Republican field army melted away, a guerrilla war, however, was continued by a small mercenary force, until a peace was concluded early in 1877. In the meantime the defeat of the Boers by an insignificant tribe of an unlike branch of the native race, and their inability to repair the disaster, were producing alarming excitement in the native mind, and, the peace of South Africa being deemed to be in evident danger, Her Majesty's Government despatched Sir Theophilus Shepstone, who happened to be in London at the time, to South Africa, as a Special Commissioner from Her Majesty, to watch events, and take such action as might be necessary to secure the general peace.

When Sir Theophilus Shepstone arrived in the Transvaal, he found reason to believe that the peace with Sikukuni was but a hollow one, as the chief declared that he had never assented to, and knew nothing of its principal article: while at the same time the attitude of the Zulu King on the east was such that his irruption into the Republic might at any moment be expected. The condition of the Government was past hope. The finances, which had never flourished, had wholly gone to ruin under the strain of war expenditure and a foreign loan. The public servants were unpaid. The treasury was empty. The public debt was 295,000l. The people would no longer pay taxes, and the banks, to which the Republic was heavily in debt, refused further advances. The coercive authority of the Government over its own subjects appeared to have ceased, and its defensive power against enemies nil. In these circumstances—the Republican Government having ceased to exist, and being incapable of revival—Sir Theophilus Shepstone deemed no other course open to him but to proclaim the Queen's sovereignty, and set up a Government. This he did on the 12th of April by a proclamation which was approved by Her Majesty's Government.

The annexation of the Transvaal was effected without the aid of physical force. Sir T. Shepstone at the time had with him but a few mounted policemen; and Her Majesty's troops did not arrive in the province for some time after the English Government had been set up, with the apparent acquiescence of the public. But subsequently hostile feelings towards the annexation were widely manifested, and two deputations were sent to England after annexation, to represent those who were opposed to that measure and desired a withdrawal of the British Government. In each case the answer of Her Majesty's Government was a decided negative.

On the entry of Her Majesty's present advisers into office, a telegraphic message was sent by the Secretary of State for the Colonies to the Transvaal, to make it known that Her Majesty's sovereignty could not be withdrawn from the Territory. This message provoked no outburst of feeling at the time; but in December, 1880, a majority of the Boers took up arms against the Government, and hoisted the flag of the South African Republic at Heidelberg. The towns held by Imperial troops were immediately invested, and a detachment of the 94th Regiment, which was being withdrawn from Lydenburg to Pretoria, to strengthen the force at headquarters, was surprised, and after suffering very heavy loss, compelled to surrender. The towns, however, held out, and Sir G. Pomeroy Colley, without waiting for re-inforcements, collected the small force at his disposal and advanced from Maritzburg to relieve them. A large force of Boers, determined to oppose his entry into the Transvaal, took possession of Lang's Nek, the pass by which he had to cross the Drakensberg range.

On the 28th of January the English troops made a gallant attempt to carry this pass by storm, but they were driven back with heavy loss. The Boers followed up this advantage by cutting off Sir G. Colley's communications with Newcastle, with a view to prevent his receiving the reinforcements which had been sent out, and were now on the way up. To re-open his communications he crossed the Ingogo River on the morning of the 8th of February, and was immediately attacked by the Boers. The action continued all day; at nightfall the Boers drew off, and the English forces returned to their camp.

In the meantime strenuous efforts were being made by President Brand, of the Orange Free State, to bring about an understanding; and in reply to the appeal which he made to Her Majesty's Government, they declared that if the Boers would desist from armed opposition to the English troops, a scheme would be framed for the permanent friendly settlement of all difficulties. This message was forwarded to the Boers on the 21st of February, in a letter addressed to Mr. Paul Krüger, one of their leaders, by General Colley, and an answer was required within forty-eight hours. Mr. Krüger was away at Rustenburg, and the letter was sent unopened to the headquarters of the Boers at Heidelberg. Dr. Bok, who was acting as State Secretary, sent it on to Mr. Krüger, and replied to General Colley that no definite answer could be given to the message from Her Majesty's Government until Mr. Krüger's views were known. Dr. Bok's message did not reach the camp at Laing's Nek till the 1st of March. On the night of the 26th of February, General Colley having received no reply to his message, moved out with three hundred and fifty men, and took possession of the summit of the Majuba Mountain, a spur of the Drakensberg, commanding the Boer camp at Laing's Nek. The Boers attacked the mountain next day, and carried it by storm, with little loss, while only about one-fifth of the defenders escaped, the rest being killed, wounded, or taken prisoners. Sir G. Pomeroy Colley himself was killed by a bullet through his forehead.

The command now devolved on Sir E. Wood, who was at Pietermaritzburg organizing the advance of the reinforcements, and at the instance of President Brand, an interview took place on the 6th of March between him and General Joubert, who was in command of the Boers at Laing's Nek, which resulted in the conclusion of an armistice, with a view to allow time for the receipt of
Mr. Krüger's reply to the message of Her Majesty's Government. Mr. Krüger's answer, written on the 28th of February at Heidelberg, was received by Sir E. Wood on the 7th of March, and it was considered satisfactory. A preliminary peace agreement was signed on the 21st of March by Sir E. Wood and the representatives of the Boers. The terms of the agreement were that Her Majesty's Government should allow the Transvaal self-government as regards its own interior affairs, that the control and management of the foreign relations of the State should be reserved to Her Majesty as Suzerain, and that the Government of the Transvaal should recognize a British Resident. The functions of this officer, and the provisions for the protection of the interests of the native population, were to be determined by Her Majesty's Government on the recommendation of a Royal Commission.

The Commissioners who were appointed to consider the whole question of the settlement of the affairs of the Transvaal, were Sir H. Robinson, Sir E. Wood, and Sir J. H. de Villiers, Chief Justice of the Cape Colony; and President Brand was invited to be present at the conferences of the Commissioners with the representatives of the Boers as a person friendly to both parties. The sittings of the Commission were opened on the 28th of April at Newcastle, from which they were afterwards transferred to Pretoria. The recommendations of the Commission were submitted in detail to Her Majesty's Government, and in the result a Convention was framed embodying the terms of the peace agreement, defining the functions of the Resident as analogous to those of a consul-general and chargé d'affaires, and conferring upon him extensive powers for the protection of the interests of the natives in the Transvaal. He also forms the medium of communication between the Government of the Transvaal and the native States on its borders. Arrangements were made for the repayment of the sums advanced by Her Majesty's Government in aid of the revenue of the Transvaal during the occupation; and a sub-commission composed of the two judges of the High Court and Mr. Hudson, the Colonial Secretary, was appointed to consider claims for compensation for losses sustained during the hostilities.

This Convention was signed on the 3rd of August, and on the 8th of that month the government was handed over to the representatives of the Boers. The Convention was finally ratified by a duly elected Volksraad on the 25th of October, and provisions were made by extraordinary taxation for meeting the claims on the new State.

Mr. Hudson was appointed Resident, with a salary of £1,500 per annum.

Government.

On the annexation in 1877, the Government was administered by Sir Theophilus Shepstone until March, 1879, when he was succeeded by Sir Owen Lanyon.

By Letters Patent, bearing date the 8th November, 1879, an Executive Council and Legislative Assembly were constituted for the Transvaal. The former consisted of:

- The Administrator.
- The Officer Commanding the Troops.
- The Colonial Secretary.
- The Attorney General.
- The Secretary for Native Affairs,
and three nominated members, who each received £300 per annum.

The Legislative Assembly comprised the members of the Executive Council, together with the Chief Justice, and six nominated members.

The Government is at present administered by Messrs. Paul Krüger, M. W. Pretorius, and P. J. Joubert, as a triumvirate, pending the election of a president. The legislative power resides in an elective Assembly, styled the Volksraad.

Public Debt.

On 31st December, 1879, the Public debt amounted to £407,064, including the Imperial grant of £100,000. The remainder consists of two funded debts, one of £90,166, raised at Amsterdam, and one of £48,000; raised at the Cape. There is also a floating debt to the Standard Bank of about £130,000.

The financial liabilities of the new Government and the provision for their re-payment were stated in Articles 10 and 11 of the Convention, as follows:

"Article 10. The Transvaal State will be liable for the balance of the debts for which the South African Republic was liable at the date of annexation, viz.: the sum of £48,000, in respect of the Cape Commercial Bank Loan, and £85,667, in respect of the Railway Loan, together with the amount due on the 8th August, 1881, on account of the Orphan Chamber debt, which now stands at £27,226. 15s., which debt will be a first charge upon the revenues of the State. The Transvaal State will moreover be liable for the lawful expenditure lawfully incurred for the necessary expenses of the Province since annexation, to wit: the sum of £265,000, which debt, together with such debts as may be incurred by virtue of the 9th Article, will be a second charge upon the revenues of the State."

"Article 11. The debts due as aforesaid by the Transvaal State to Her Majesty's Government will bear interest at the rate of three and a half per cent., and any portion of such debt as may remain unpaid on the 8th August, 1882, shall be repayable by a payment for interest and Sinking Fund of 6½d. and 9½d. per £100 per annum, which will extinguish the debt in twenty-five years. The said payment of 6½d. and 9½d. per £100, shall be payable half-yearly, in British currency, on the 8th February and 8th August in each year: Provided always that the Transvaal State shall pay, in reduction of the said debt, the sum of £100,000 before the 8th August, 1882, and shall be at liberty at the close of any half-year to pay off the whole or any portion of the outstanding debt."
