THE GOLD COAST COLONY.

The Gold Coast Colony which comprises the British Settlements on the Gold Coast and at Lagos, was constituted by a Charter under the Great Seal, bearing date the 24th day of July, 1874.

THE GOLD COAST PROPER.

The Gold Coast is the name generally given to a portion of Upper Guinea, between 5° W. long. and 2° E. long., between which points are the settlements of Axim, Dixcove, Secondee, Elmina, Cape Coast Castle, Anamaboe, Accra, and Adadah. In 1672 a Company was formed, called the Royal African Company, which built forts at Dixcove, Secondee, Commendah, Anamaboe, Winnebah, and Accra, besides strengthening Cape Coast Castle, which was already in existence. This company was succeeded in 1750 by the African Company of Merchants, constituted by Act of Parliament, with liberty to trade and to form establishments on the West Coast of Africa, between 20° N. and 20° S. lat. This company was dissolved in 1821 by Act of Parliament, and the forts transferred to the Crown, and placed under the Government of Sierra Leone.

First Ashanti War.

The then Governor of Sierra Leone, Sir Charles Macarthy, on visiting Cape Coast Castle, found the neighbouring country of the Fantis in possession of the victorious and marauding armies of the Ashantis. He formed the resolution of inciting the Fantis against their oppressors, and himself led an army of them, with a few disciplined soldiers, against the Ashantis at Essankow, where on the 24th of January, 1824, he was killed, and his force totally routed.

The war which ensued was ended by the victory of the English at Doodewah, near Accra, in 1827. Peace was formally concluded by a tripartite Treaty in 1831 between the English, the Fantis, and the Ashantis.

Government of the Merchants.

In the meantime, Her Majesty's Government, had been at one time minded to quit the coast altogether, and had transferred the government of the forts to the local and London merchants interested, who secured as their Governor Mr. George Maclean, a man of marked energy and capacity. This gentleman, with a force of no more than 100 men at command, and a revenue of only about 4,000l. a-year, contrived to extend and maintain the influence of his government over the whole tract of country lying behind the British forts, and now known as the Gold Coast Protectorate. In 1843, it having been suspected that the Merchant Government connived at the Slave Trade, the forts were resumed by the Crown, a Lieut.-Governor being appointed. Mr. Maclean was continued in the direction of Native Affairs, under the title of Judicial Assessor to the Native Chiefs, which post he held until his death in 1847.

In 1850 the Danish forts at Accra and Quittah were purchased from the King of Denmark for 10,000l.

Second Ashanti War.

In 1863 a raid was made into the Protectorate by an Ashanti force, in revenge for the Governor having refused to surrender to the King of Ashanti two fugitives from his kingdom. A force of West Indian troops was marched to the Prah, where it encamped, but the enemy made no appearance, and the troops were withdrawn, after suffering great loss from sickness.

Acquisition of Dutch Forts.

Interspersed amongst the British settlements there had always been a number of Dutch forts. This circumstance was an abiding source of embarrassment to the British Government, as, the Dutch settlements being free ports, no appreciable customs
THE GOLD COAST COLONY.

duties could be imposed at the British ports without driving trade into those of the Dutch. A partition of the coast was therefore effected by a Convention, which came into force on the 1st of January, 1868, the Dutch taking the country west of the Sweet river, the British that lying to the east. Under this partition the Dutch acquired Dixovee, Apollonia, Secondee, and Commendai; the British acquired Dutch Accra, Berraco, Appam, Cormantyne, and Moree. Her Majesty also relinquished to the King of Holland her protectorate over the two Wassaws, Apollonia, and Denkera.

The Dutch found their new possessions extremely unruly. Their authority was defied by the protected tribes of the interior, and their officers outraged and ill-treated on the coast; and by a convention, signed at the Hague in 1871, they abandoned to Great Britain the whole of their rights on the coast. The Convention was not immediately ratified, but an assurance was first sought and received from the King of Ashanti that he had no claim on the Dutch settlements of Elmina. The formidable objection to the transfer arising out of this supposed claim having been removed, the Ratifications were exchanged at the Hague in February 1872, and on the 6th of April, 1872, the actual transfer of the sovereignty of the forts took place, when the Dutch Governor, Ferguson, handed, in the presence of chiefs and people, the ancient gold and ivory baton of De Ruyter to Mr. John Pope-Hennessy, the Acting Governor-in-Chief of the West Africa settlements.

Third Ashanti War.

On the 9th of December, 1872, the King of Ashanti despatched from Coomassie an army of 40,000 men to invade the British Protectorate. It is not clearly known what may have been the motives prompting him to this proceeding. He himself made various statements on the subject, and it may probably be ascribed to a variety of motives—the solicitations of the disloyal people of Elmina, an unfounded fear that the British would subjugate him, and rage on account of having been foiled in an attempt to cheat the Local Government in negotiations then pending for the redemption of certain German missionaries, whom he held in captivity.

His army did not cross the Prah until the 29th of January, 1873. It then spread itself slowly over the country, ravaging as it advanced. In April it met and defeated the Fanti allies at Dunguah, and again in June at Jouguah. After this victory the commander had the hardihood to attack the fortress of Elmina, where he was entirely defeated by the seamen and Marines of the Fleet, in conjunction with the Colonial Forces, all under the command of Colonel now Sir Francis Festing, K.C.M.G., C.B. After this the war languished for some time, but Her Majesty's Government deemed it incumbent on them to commence operations on a more extensive and systematic plan for concluding it. In pursuance of this resolution, Captain, now Sir John, Glover, G.C.M.G., was commissioned to repair to the eastern districts of the Protectorate, and organise the tribes in that quarter for a flank movement against the Ashanti territory.

At the same time Sir Garnet, now Lord, Wolseley, was despatched to the Gold Coast to concert other measures for bringing about the objects in view. He was appointed Civil Administrator, received the local rank of Major-General, and was assisted by a numerous and distinguished staff. But before Captain Glover had been able to make much progress in marshalling his native levies, it was determined to make a further effort for the more immediate expulsion of the enemy from the Protectorate, and his effective punishment, and Sir Garnet Wolseley quickly decided that the native chiefs were wanting in the qualities necessary for his purpose, and reported strongly to Her Majesty's Government that in his judgment it would be necessary to send three battalions of white troops to the Coast. Within 48 hours of the receipt of this despatch in England two battalions were on their way to the Coast. A third followed on the 8th of November. The troops arrived early in December, but a good road to the Prah not having been completed, they were sent to see again. In the meantime Sir Garnet Wolseley, by the aid of native levies, West Indian troops, and seamen and Marines, had been driving the enemy further and further towards the Prah, which they crossed on the 27th, 28th, and 29th of November. The white troops landed towards the end of December, and Sir Garnet Wolseley and his head-quarters crossed the Prah on the 20th of January. The King of Ashanti now begged for peace, and sent the captive missionaries and others to the British camp; but as his language and acts were not satisfactory, Sir Garnet Wolseley continued his advance, and on the 31st of January came into general engagement with the enemy at Amoofa, where, after desperate resistance, he drove them from their position. The next days were employed continuously in fighting, until, on the evening of the 4th of February, the British force entered Coomassie. The King had fled to the bush. Negotiations were opened with him, but without result, and on the 6th Sir Garnet Wolseley quitted Coomassie and commenced his march to the Coast, the Royal Engineers firing the city as the force marched out. In the meantime Sir John Glover had been advancing from the east with Housseas and native allies, and on the 12th he passed through the burning ruins of Coomassie. On the 13th messengers sent by the King signed a peace with Sir Garnet Wolseley at Fonmanah, which was afterwards signed with a pencil cross by King Coffee (who could not write). By the Treaty of Fonmanah the King of Ashanti renounced all claims on the Protectorate, promised to protect traders, to abandon human sacrifices, to keep up a good road to the Prah, and to pay an indemnity of 50,000 ozs. of gold to the Queen. The King has paid by three instalments about 1,600 ozs. of gold. He also asked that the Queen would permit him to send his son to be educated in England. This was allowed, and the boy (Kofi Intee) was placed at the Surrey County School, near Guildford; and is now in the service of the Government of Trinidad.

Constitution.

At the conclusion of peace, measures were taken for placing the British Government of the Gold Coast upon a proper footing of efficiency and security.

A new charter was issued, dated the 24th of July, 1874, separating the settlements of the Gold Coast and Lagos from the government of the West Africa settlements, and erecting them into one colony under the style of the Gold Coast Colony, under a Governor-in-Chief, with an Administrator at Lagos. There is one Executive Council and one nominated Legislative Council for the two settlements, and there is one Supreme Court to administer justice amongst the inhabitants of the settlements.
By an Order in Council, dated the 6th of August, 1874, Her Majesty empowered the new Legislature to regulate by Ordinance or Ordinances all such powers as she may enjoy in the protected territories adjacent to the British settlements.

Measures taken since the War.

For the present the tariffs of the two settlements of the Gold Coast and Lagos remain distinct, and their Revenue is separately accounted for. The police force, officered by Europeans, numbering nearly 1,000 rank and file, is armed with the Snider, and part is trained in artillery exercise. This force is largely composed of men of the Houssa tribe—a people noted for their military qualities. The Ahoonahs beyond the Volta have acknowledged their country to be under the Queen's jurisdiction, and Government and Revenue stations have been formed along the coast as far as Addafia.

Since the peace the Adansis, Juabins, and other tribes hitherto tributary to Ashanti, have revolted and refused tribute, and in some cases made overtures of fealty to the British Crown. The relations between Ashanti and Juabin being most threatening, in the summer of 1876, Capt. Lees volunteered to go to Cooomassie, and if possible arrange for the maintenance of peace. His perilous and difficult task proved successful for the time, and the misfortune of a war in the interior was averted. Unfortunately the peace did not prove lasting, and hostilities took place between the Ashantis and Juabins, which resulted in the defeat of the latter, who sought refuge within the British Protectorate.

The road to the Prah, constructed during the war by the late Colonel Home, R.E., C.B., has been maintained by the labour of the natives, under the direction of the armed police. The seat of Government has been transferred to Accra.

Domestic Slavery.

At its first meeting, the Legislative Council, exercising the powers in relation to the Protectorate conferred by Her Majesty's Order in Council of the 6th of August, 1874, passed two ordinances disposing of the question of slavery.

Domestic slavery existed from time immemorial on the Gold Coast, as in other parts of Africa. The slave population consisted partly of native-born slaves, and partly of Donkos, slaves purchased from Ashanti importers. Slavery was an emanation of parental authority, every man being saleable either by his father or mother, according to the character of the union subsisting between his parents, and the consequent status of the mother. In addition to slavery emanating from parental authority, there was a species of slavery called pawning, founded on contract, which arose when a debtor gave to his creditor, as a security, either himself, or a child or slave, to be a temporary slave in the hands of the creditor until debt and interest were paid.

Within the British possessions on the Gold Coast, slavery was abolished by force of the statute 3 & 4 Will. iv., c. 73, but the British territory on the Gold Coast is of very narrow local range, and slavery within the Protectorate was not affected by that statute. Nor was any attempt made on the part of the British Government to uproot it. "If the laws or usages of those countries," observed Lord John Russell (desp. 14 July, 1841), "tolerate slavery, we have no right to set aside those laws or usages except by persuasion, negotiation, and other peaceful means." But even at that time the harsher usages of slavery were appreciably mitigated by the action of the court of the "judicial assessor to the Native Chiefs" and other magistrates. At the conclusion of the war the question was seriously taken in hand, and settled by the two ordinances in question. One prohibits, under penalties, the introduction of slaves into the Protectorate, and the buying and selling, and pawning of slaves and other persons within the Protectorate; and the second declares, that henceforth no court, native or British, shall take notice of, so as to give effect to the relations between master and slave, except in so far as those relations may be in accordance with the law of England relating to master and servant.

Mail Communication.

The distance from—Miles.
Lagos to Cape Coast is . . . . 288
Cape Coast to Sierra Leone . . . 869
Sierra Leone to Madeira . . . . 1,580
Madeira to England (Liverpool). . 1,420

The length of voyage from Liverpool to Madeira is about 7 days; and from Madeira to Cape Coast about 14 days.

