THE GOLD COAST

SITUATION AND AREA

The Gold Coast lies on the Gulf of Guinea. Extending from 3° 15’ W. longitude to 1° 12’ E. longitude and from 4° 45’ N. latitude to 11° 10’ N. latitude, it is composed of three territorial divisions—the Colony to the South, the Northern Territories and, between the two, Ashanti. Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship is also administered as part of the Gold Coast.

On the West, the Gold Coast marches with the French Colonies of the Ivory Coast and Haute Volta; on the East, with Togoland under United Kingdom trusteeship and on the North, with the French Colony of the Haute Volta. To the South its shores are washed by the Atlantic ocean.

The areas of its various divisions are:

| Division                        | sq. miles |
|---------------------------------|-----------|
| Gold Coast Colony               | 23,490    |
| Ashanti                         | 24,560    |
| Northern Territories            | 30,600    |
| (Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship) | 13,040 |
|                                 | 91,690    |
Climate

The climate of the Gold Coast resembles that of other territories lying within the tropics, near the equator, in that the weather recurs in reasonably definite seasons, which are related to the annual movement of the sun northwards and southwards across the equator. The heaviest rainfall occurs about a month or so after the sun has passed overhead in a particular locality and the rain is to a large extent associated with thunderstorms. Superimposed upon this heavy rain, which is due to the heating of the ground, are periods of rainfall associated with the penetration of moist air from the south-west, which penetration is itself controlled by the movement of the sun and reaches its maximum distance north during the northern summer. This is similar to the S.W. monsoon of India, although, in the Gold Coast its effect is not so well marked as it is, for example, in Sierra Leone or in South-Eastern Nigeria.

There are four fairly distinct climatic regions viz.: the coastal belt, the extreme south-west corner, the forest belt and the North. The average climate is illustrated by the figures in the table below for Accra, Axim, Kumasi and Tamale, which are respectively typical of the four regions.

| Zone          | Station | Mean Rainfall | Mean Temperature | Max. Temperature | Relative Humidity |
|---------------|---------|---------------|------------------|-----------------|------------------|
| Coastal belt  | Accra   | 29 ins.       | 85°-9°F.         | 82%             |
| South-west corner | Axim    | 82 ins.       | 83°-5°F.         | 86%             |
| Forest belt   | Kumasi  | 58 ins.       | 86°-2°F.         | 84%             |
| North         | Tamale  | 43 ins.       | 92°-3°F.         | 61%             |

In the coastal belt the annual rainfall, by equatorial standards, is very low and three-quarters of it occurs in the period March-July, although there is a secondary maximum in October. It is also notable for the relatively cool weather during the period June-September when the average maximum temperature is only 82-5°F, and the average minimum 71-5°F, in Accra itself. This region is probably unique among coastal equatorial regions for its low rainfall and cool weather.

As one moves towards the extreme south-west corner, the amount of rainfall increases rapidly and the climatic regime is more typical of its latitude. There are two marked rainy seasons, with the principal maximum in May-June and a secondary maximum in October-November. Temperatures are much more uniform than in the coastal belt, although the weather is a little cooler during the period June to September than it is for the rest of the year. In the forest belt, there is a relatively dry spell from December to February and again in August; but over the rest of the year the rainfall is fairly uniform, although there are quite definite maxima in May-June and in September-October. Temperatures are a little higher than in the south-west corner but follow the same annual pattern, with a cool spell in July-September. It is in the northern regions that variations in temperatures become more marked: during most of the year the average maxima are over 90°F, and during February and March the average maxima are 100-3°F, and 101-1°F, respectively. There is a small drop in temperature during the period July-September which coincides with the middle of the rainy season. The highest temperature of 107°F recorded at Tamale, is the highest recorded in the Gold Coast. Tamale also holds the record for the lowest temperature, of 60°F that has been experienced in any of the principal meteorological stations.

Except when the Harmattan, a dry, dusty, north-east wind, blows from the Sahara, the relative humidity is generally high, usually about 80 per cent. on an average, and the high humidity is the greatest contributory cause of discomfort. The Harmattan reaches the Gold Coast in January and February and, although it is in the north that the principal effect is felt, it also penetrates to the coastal area for short periods. Relative humidity becomes very low, with the result that books and papers curl up, furniture shrinks and the skin becomes parched and dry. The daily range of temperature also increases and the season is a very trying one for Europeans living in the North, although the short spells of the Harmattan in the south are relatively pleasant, because of the cooler nights that accompany it, and provide a welcome relief from the heat of the day.

General Description

Gold Coast Colony

The Colony is inhabited by a large number of tribes, whose customs and forms of government are of a more or less similar character. It is divided into states (each with a paramount chief), several of which have formed confederacies, and the states and confederacies are administered by native authorities. Each province has a Provincial Council of Chiefs and there is also a Joint Provincial Council of Chiefs, with deliberative and advisory functions.

A number of different languages and dialects are spoken, the principal being Twi, Fanti, Ewe and Ga: but the use of English is widespread.

Ashanti

Ashanti is a federation of a number of groups of Akan-speaking peoples under the leadership of the Chief of one of these groups (Kumasi) who, since the beginnings of the Confederacy early in the eighteenth century, has been known as the Asantehene (the King of Ashanti). The hegemony of Kumasi was first extended by alliances with Chiefs who were blood relations of the Asantehene—such as Kokofu, Juaben and Bekwai in the east and south—and later by conquest of neighbouring groups—such as the Brong peoples to the north-west of Kumasi, whose ties of blood and language with Bontuku, the old Jaman capital in the Ivory Coast, are closer than those with Kumasi.

The Northern Territories

The headquarters of the protectorate is at Tamale in the Dagomba district, 237 miles north of Kumasi. The Krachi district and portions of the Gonja and Dagomba districts, including Yendi, the Dagomba district headquarters, are within the northern section of Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship.

Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship

Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship is part of the former German protectorate of Togoland. It is a narrow strip about 320 miles long lying along the Eastern frontier of the Gold
Coast between 6° 20' N. and 11° 10' N. It comprises an area of 13,041 square miles. The population according to the first and unchecked figures of the 1948 census was:

- Northern Section: 209,900
- Southern Section: 172,300

Total: 382,200

This total figure comprises the members of many different tribes. In the Southern Section the people are predominantly Ewe.

Togoland is not distinguished from the Gold Coast in statistical returns other than those dealing with population. Some statistical material is however provided in the appendices to the annual report on the Territory to the United Nations Trusteeship Council.

The road system of Togoland is linked at a number of points with that of the Gold Coast and Togoland under French Trusteeship. A power ferry carries vehicles across the river Volta on the main road between Togoland and the capital Accra. Cocoa, the chief export produce of the Territory is evacuated via the Palime/Lome railway and the port of Lome in Togoland under French Trusteeship.

The Southern Section is linked with the Gold Coast telephone and telegraph service. There is a wireless telegraph service to Yendi and Kete Krachi in the Northern Section. An emergency landing ground is maintained at Kete Krachi.

**POPULATION**

The first attempt to take a census was made in 1891 which, however, covered the Colony only. Since then a census has been taken in 1901, 1911, 1921, 1931 and 1948, the decennial sequence being interrupted between 1931 and 1948 by war conditions. Except in 1901, Ashanti and the Northern Territories have been included; and in 1921 and later censuses Togoland under U.K. trusteeship has been included. In a country such as the Gold Coast, imperfect communications and lack of education militate against complete accuracy in the compilation of a census.

Preliminary and provisional figures derived from the census taken early in 1948 are as follows:

|                | African | Non-African |
|----------------|---------|-------------|
| Gold Coast     | 4,088,503 | 6,773       |
| Colony         | 2,189,089 | 5,377       |
| Ashanti        | 822,485  | 1,187       |
| Northern Territories | 1,076,929 | 209         |

The part of Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship (included in above): 378,616

In some of the chief towns:

- Accra: 132,744
- Cape Coast: 22,917
- Ho: 5,804
- Koforidua: 17,633
- Kumasi: 69,932
- Sekondi/Takoradi: 43,323
- Tamale: 17,261
- Tarkwa: 7,434

The figures include maritime and military population.

**RELIGION**

The indigenous beliefs of the Akan peoples combine belief in a supreme God with beliefs in lesser gods, in the spirits of ancestors and in fetishes.

The first Christian missionaries landed in 1828 but it was not until 1838 that continuous mission work was established. The principal Christian missions in the Gold Coast are, in numerical order of their number of followers: the Methodist Missionary Society, the Roman Catholic Mission, the Presbyterian Church, the Roman Catholic Mission (Trans-Volta), the Ewe Presbyterian Church, the English Church Mission, and the White Fathers Mission (Roman Catholic, Northern Territories). (See Gold Coast Handbook, 1937, page 25.)

The immigrant Hausa section of the population from Northern Nigeria and many of the immigrants from the French Soudan are Mohammedans. Since 1873 Mohammedan missionaries have been active in the Gold Coast. In addition Islam has a considerable influence in the northern territories of the Gold Coast. A branch of the Ahmadiyya Movement was opened in 1921, with headquarters at Saltpond. There are numerous branches in the Colony, Ashanti and the Northern Territories.

**HISTORY**

**Gold Coast Colony**

Little is known of the history of the people of the Gold Coast prior to the first recorded contact with Europeans, which took place towards the end of the 15th century, but tradition, borne out by the present language distribution, and by the absence of traces of large earlier settlements, is that the present population resulted from a series of waves of immigration in comparatively recent historical times.

Of these immigrants the most numerous were the Akans who, displaced by more warlike and better organised tribes, came from the north-west in search of sanctuary to the forests of the Gold Coast, some sections of them eventually reaching the sea. Their numbers being augmented by a succession of later waves, the Akans assimilated the aborigines and gradually occupied the greater part of the country. Behind the Akans came the Moshi who, partly by conquest and partly by peaceful penetration, obtained supremacy over the inhabitants of the northern portion of the Gold Coast and established the Mamprussi and Dagomba kingdoms under the rule of sons or other relatives of their leaders. At a later date the south-east corner of the colony was peopled by an infiltration of Ga, Adangbe and Ewe tribes from the east and north-east.

The first Europeans to reach the Gold Coast were the Portuguese who, arriving in 1471, built the castle at Elmina eleven years later in order to protect their trading interests. They found a people of hunters and fishermen, primitive in habits and development, yet understanding the working of iron and fully conscious of the value of gold. No native state of any size had yet been established, but numerous petty chiefdoms were in existence.

Until the close of the 16th century the Portuguese maintained their trading monopoly. Feeble efforts on the part of other European powers, including the English, were made to obtain a footing on the Coast, but the Portuguese were never seriously challenged until the advent of the Dutch in 1595.
At first the Portuguese were interested in obtaining gold, ivory and spices, but with the opening up of the New World there came a demand for cheap labour for the plantations. So commenced the transatlantic slave trade which, until its decline and abolition in the 19th century, shaped the history of the Gold Coast.

The main results of the slave trade were twofold. First, in order to feed the slaves awaiting shipment and their captors, the Portuguese were obliged to introduce food plants and to teach an improved method of agriculture to a people hitherto largely dependent for food on the natural resources of the forest and sea. Secondly, the lucrative nature of the trade attracted the attention of other European nations besides the Portuguese to the possibilities of the Gold Coast.

The Dutch, appearing on the Coast in 1595, rapidly undermined the domination of the Portuguese. In 1637 they captured Elmina and in 1642 the Portuguese abandoned all their possessions in the Gold Coast to the newcomers. Other European powers, including the English, followed and, fighting amongst themselves, scrambled for a footing on the Coast. By 1750, however, the year in which the African Company of Merchants was formed and subsidised by the British Government to the extent of £13,000 per annum, all had withdrawn except the Dutch with their headquarters at Elmina, the Danes with their headquarters at Christiansborg, and the English with their headquarters at Cape Coast Castle.

In 1821 the British Government first assumed the control of the British settlements in the Gold Coast, and the African Company of Merchants was dissolved, its possessions being vested in the Crown and placed under the government of Sierra Leone. Seven years later, however, the British Government, after considering complete withdrawal from the Coast, entrusted the government of the settlements in the Gold Coast to a Committee of London Merchants. In 1843, however, the 1821 arrangement was restored in consequence of suspected slave trading, which had been abolished by Great Britain in 1833. The year 1850 saw the separation of the British forts and settlements of the Gold Coast from Sierra Leone, the cession of the Danish possessions to Britain and the creation by Letters Patent of Executive and Legislative Councils, but in 1866 government from Sierra Leone was resumed.

In 1872 the Dutch finally withdrew from the Gold Coast. Two years later, after Sir Garnet Wolseley's successful Ashanti campaign, came the final separation from Sierra Leone. A new charter was issued dated 24th July, 1874, separating Her Majesty's settlements on the Gold Coast and Lagos from the government of Sierra Leone and constituting them into one colony under the style of the Gold Coast Colony under a Governor-in-Chief with an administrator at Lagos.

In 1886 all the settlements and territories belonging to Her Majesty on the Gold Coast were, by Letters Patent dated 13th January, formed into a distinct colony, Lagos being separated therefrom. This territory, however, did not include all the areas under British protection and had no specified boundaries. To regularise the position, therefore, these protected areas were annexed to His Majesty's Dominions and declared to be part and parcel of His Majesty's Gold Coast Colony by Order-in-Council of 26th September, 1901. The boundaries of the colony thus constituted were defined by Order-in-Council dated 22nd October, 1906, and have since remained unchanged.

On 22nd June, 1939, the Gold Coast experienced a severe earthquake which did much damage to buildings, especially in Accra, and caused about 150 casualties, including 16 deaths.

Ashanti

The rise of Ashanti dates from a successful rebellion against the Denkeras, to whom the Ashantis were then subject, in about 1715 A.D. For nearly two centuries thereafter Ashanti was intermittently engaged in war with surrounding peoples. An expedition which reached the sea in 1807 and took the Dutch trading fort at Kormantine first brought them seriously to the notice of the Europeans trading on the coast. Frequent similar incursions into what became British Protected Territory followed (the Governor of the British Settlements, Sir Charles McCarthy, being defeated and killed during that of 1824), but it was not until 1874 that the war was carried into Ashanti.

In 1873 an Ashanti army came south and overran a large part of the Protectorate. Sir Garnet (afterwards Viscount) Wolseley was sent out to the Gold Coast with British and West Indian troops and some seamen and marines to operate with native levies against the Ashantis, starting from Cape Coast; and at the same time Captain (afterwards Sir) John Glover was sent to the eastern districts of the Protectorate to organise the tribes in that quarter, for a flank movement against the Ashanti territory. The main Ashanti army had been sharply defeated outside Elmina by a small British force under Colonel (afterwards Sir) Francis Festing. It had failed to take Cape Coast and was suffering from disease and lack of food, and though opposed succeeded in making good its retreat to Ashanti without further serious engagement.

More troops arrived in December. Sir Garnet Wolseley advanced into Ashanti, and on 31st January, 1874, he came into general engagement with the enemy at Amoaful, where he drove them from their position after desperate resistance. The next four days were employed continuously in fighting, until, on the evening of 4th February, the British force entered Kumasi. The Asantehene had fled to the bush. A few days later Sir John Glover also reached Kumasi. On the 13th, messengers sent by the Asantehene concluded a peace with Sir Garnet Wolseley at Fomena, which was afterwards signed with a pencil cross by the Asantehene. By the Treaty of Fomena, the Ashantis renounced all claims on the Protectorate, promised to protect traders, to abandon human sacrifices, and to pay an indemnity of 50,000 oz. of gold.

In 1894 Prempeh, who was then Asantehene, and had successfully fought against the Nkoranzas, who had revolted against his rule, threatened to attack the Atebubus. This attack was averted by the despatch of a force under Sir Francis Scott, and an ultimatum was then sent to Prempeh warning him not to enter British territory, and suggesting that he should acquiesce in the establishment of a Residency at Kumasi. No definite reply to this suggestion could be obtained, and a military expedition accordingly proceeded to Kumasi, to compel compliance with the demands of Her Majesty's Government. The expedition, under the command of Sir Francis Scott, entered Kumasi without resistance, January, 1896. Prempeh made submission, but, failing to comply with the terms dictated, was brought to the
coast as a political prisoner and lodged in Elmina Castle, whence he was eventually deported to the Seychelles. A Resident was at the same time installed at Kumasi, and thus commenced an entirely new departure in the relations of the Gold Coast Colony with Ashanti.

In 1900 the Governor visited Kumasi, and was there besieged by the Ashantis, the town being closely invested. Provisions ran short, and a part of the garrison, with the Governor, cut their way out; the rest were relieved by Colonel (afterwards Sir J.) Willcocks, commanding the Ashanti Field Force, on 15th July, after severe fighting. The Ashantis were subsequently thoroughly routed at Abuosu.

An Order of the King in Council, dated 26th September, 1901, defined the boundaries of Ashanti, annexed it to His Majesty's dominions, and provided for its administration under the Governor of the Gold Coast. By a subsequent Order in Council of 22nd October, 1906, the boundaries between the Colony and Ashanti, and between Ashanti and the Northern Territories were re-adjusted and defined, with due regard to tribal lands and natural features.

The jurisdiction of the Supreme Court was extended to Ashanti in 1935. The former circuit judge is now a Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court of which a divisional court has been established at Kumasi.

The peaceful relations which, under the auspices of the Gold Coast Government, have existed for many years now between the Ashantis and the neighbouring tribes were signified by petitions emanating from the Gold Coast Colony as well as from Ashanti for the return from exile of Prempeh, the former Asantehene. The confidence felt by the Government of the Gold Coast in the loyalty of the Ashanti people led to the granting of this request in 1924, and in 1926 he was recognised once more as Head Chief of the Kumasi Division though not as Asantehene.

Prempeh died on 12th May, 1931, and was succeeded by his nephew (now Sir) Osei Agyeman Prempeh II on 7th July, 1931, who, on the restoration of the Ashanti Confederacy in 1935 was recognised as Asantehene.

The Legislative Council of the Gold Coast Colony was replaced in 1946 by a Legislative Council for the Colony and Ashanti.

The Northern Territories

In 1897 the territories to the north of Ashanti were constituted a separate district with the title of "The Northern Territories," and placed in charge of a Commissioner, and a grant-in-aid of the expenditure in the Northern Territories was voted by Parliament.

Major H. P. Northcott was appointed Commissioner and Commandant of these territories, with the rank of Lieutenant-Colonel. The negotiations between the British and French governments for the settlement of territorial questions in West Africa, which had been suspended in 1896, were resumed in October, 1897; and on 14th June, 1898, after a period of considerable tension in consequence of the proximity of the British and French forces in the disputed territories, a convention was signed at Paris with a proviso that it should be ratified within six (subsequently extended to twelve) months. By this convention the boundary between the Gold Coast and the French colony of the Ivory Coast, which had only been settled in 1889, as far as the 9th parallel of north latitude, was continued northwards along the course of the Black Volta River to the 11th parallel, and it was then drawn along the 11th parallel with a defection to the north in the neighbourhood of Mamprusi, until it met the Franco-German boundary of 1897. The effect of the Anglo-French convention of 14th June, 1898, was to leave Bona, Lobi and Moshi to France, while Dagati, Wa, Mamprusi and the southern portion of Grunshi were included in the British sphere.

By Order-in-Council, of 22nd October, 1906, the boundaries between the Northern Territories and Ashanti were re-adjusted and defined.

An important step was taken with regard to the government of this protectorate by replacing, with effect from 1st January, 1907, the former semi-military administration by a staff of civil district and assistant district commissioners, and by establishing new stations. Simultaneously, the 2nd Battalion of the Gold Coast Regiment was disbanded and a force of armed constabulary substituted therefor. In 1929, the Northern Territories Constabulary was disbanded and their duties taken over by the Gold Coast Police.

The jurisdiction of the Supreme Court was extended to the Northern Territories in 1935. The former Circuit Judge, Ashanti, who exercised in the Northern Territories powers similar to those which he exercised in Ashanti, is now a Puisne Judge of the Supreme Court.

In 1946 a Territorial Council was set up on which all the Native Authorities were represented. In 1948 four District Councils were established on which the Native Authorities in each district are represented.

Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship

German interest in Togoland was formally recognised by agreements made with the French on 24th December, 1885, and with the British on the 14th and 28th July, 1886, when the provisional frontiers of Togoland were fixed. Immediately on the outbreak of war between Great Britain and Germany, Togoland was invaded by Gold Coast forces. Joint Anglo-French operations against the Germans were successful and brought about the surrender of the Territory on the 26th August, 1914. The administration of the Territory was shared between the British and the French and the present boundary between the British and the French spheres was established as the result of an agreement signed by Lord Milner and M. Simon on 10th July, 1919.

In October, 1921, the Council of the League of Nations approved in principle the arrangement made between the British and French Governments and the application to the territories of the mandate system; on 20th July, 1922, the Council confirmed the mandates and defined their terms.* Togoland under British Mandate was administered under the mandate system by the Government of the Gold Coast on behalf of H.M. Government until December, 1946, when the General Assembly of the United Nations approved the draft Trusteeship Agreement† for the British sphere of Togoland.

*For text of British mandate, see Cmd. 1794.
†Published as Cmd. 7083.
CONSTITUTION

The constitutional instruments providing for the government of the Gold Coast are the Gold Coast Ordinances Order-in-Council dated 19th February, 1946, the Gold Coast Colony and Ashanti (Legislative Council) Order-in-Council dated 19th February, 1946, and the Letters Patent and Royal Instructions dated 7th March, 1946. The Executive Council consists of the Colonial Secretary, the Chief Commissioners of the Colony, Ashanti, and the Northern Territories, the Attorney-General, the Financial Secretary, and the Director of Medical Services (ex-officio members) and such other persons (appointed members) as may be appointed in terms of the Royal Instructions. The Legislative Council consists of a President (at present the Governor), six ex-officio members, 18 elected members (nine to be elected by the Joint Provincial Council of Chiefs, Colony; four to be elected by the Ashanti Confederacy Council; and five by the electorates of Accra (2), Cape Coast, Sekondi, and Kumasi), and six nominated members. The ex-officio members are the Colonial Secretary, Chief Commissioner of the Colony, Chief Commissioner of Ashanti, Chief Commissioner of the Northern Territories, the Attorney-General and the Financial Secretary.

ADMINISTRATION

Gold Coast Colony

The Colony is administered under the Governor by a Chief Commissioner, with headquarters at Cape Coast. There are nine Districts in charge of Senior District Commissioners and District Commissioners:

- Accra (Accra); Akwapim-New Juaben (Koforidua); Volta River (Akuse); Ho (Ho, Togoland, under United Kingdom Trusteeship), which includes the Kpandu and the Keta/Ada Sub-districts;
- Cape Coast (Cape Coast), which includes the Winneba and Dunkwa Sub-districts;
- Birim (Kibi), which includes the Mpraesoon and Oda Sub-districts;
- Ahanta-Nzima (Sekondi), which includes the Axim Sub-district;
- Wasaw-Aowin (Tarkwa), which includes the Enchi Sub-district;
- Sefwi (Wiawso), which includes the Bibiani Sub-district.

Ashanti

Ashanti is administered under the Governor by a Chief Commissioner, with an Assistant Chief Commissioner as relieving officer, and is divided into the following districts, each under a District Commissioner with limited powers of jurisdiction:

- Bekwai
- Kumasi
- Mampong
- Wenchi/Sunyani

The Northern Territories

The Northern Territories are administered under the Governor by a Chief Commissioner with an Assistant Chief Commissioner as relieving officer. They are divided into Mamprusi, Wa, Krachi, Dagomba and Gonja districts, with headquarters at Gambaga (shortly to be moved to Bolgatanga), Wa, Krachi, Yendi and Salaga respectively.

Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship

The British sphere is administered under the provisions of the Togoland under British Mandate Order-in-Council, 1923, which was issued on 11th October, 1923. It is divided for administrative purposes into the Northern Section and the Southern Section.

The Northern Section is administered as if it formed part of the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast, and the Southern Section as if it formed part of the Eastern Province of the Gold Coast Colony. The Supreme Court of the Gold Coast exercises jurisdiction in both sections, except as regards land cases in the Northern Section which are tried by the Court of The Chief Commissioner of the Northern Territories.

The law for the time being in force in the Northern Territories is the law in force in the Northern Section. While in the Southern Section special legislation deals with Native Administration, Native Courts and the alienation of land, the law for the time being in force in the Gold Coast Colony is, for the rest, the law in force in the Southern Section.

The Southern Section together with the Keta District of the Gold Coast Colony is administered as a single area under a Senior District Commissioner at Ho. The Northern Section comprises the whole of the Krachi District and parts of the Gonja (Headquarters Salaga), Dagomba (Headquarters Yendi) (and Mamprusi (sub-District Headquarters Bawku) Districts.

Municipal Government

The towns of Accra, Cape Coast, Kumasi, and Sekondi-Takoradi have Town Councils with an unofficial majority.

Law and Justice

The Law of the Colony is the Common Law, the doctrines of equity, and the statutes of general application in force in England on 24th July, 1874, modified by a large number of local Ordinances passed since that date. The criminal law was codified in 1892, and the civil and criminal procedure are regulated by the Courts Ordinance and the Criminal Procedure Code, both enacted in 1935.

Justice is administered by the Supreme Court which is presided over by the Chief Justice and seven Puisne Judges, to be increased to eight in 1949–50. Divisional Courts of the Supreme Court are held in different parts of the colony and within certain specified areas the Lands Division of the Court exercises a limited original and appellate jurisdiction in land cases. There are also a large number of inferior courts with limited criminal and civil jurisdiction, some of which are presided over by District Magistrates and District Commissioners. The Supreme Court has an original civil and criminal jurisdiction, and also decides appeals from the inferior courts. Appeals from the Divisional Courts and Land Courts lie to the West African Court of Appeal.

Native customary law is administered in all the courts, in so far as it is not incompatible, either directly or by necessary implication, with any ordinance for the time being in force, and not repugnant to natural justice, equity and good conscience.
Native courts are established throughout the Colony, with criminal and civil jurisdiction in cases where the parties are subject thereto.

There are five Central Prisons and 19 Local and Female Prisons. The Local Prisons at Lawra and Salaga have been closed. Another Prison Camp for first offenders has been opened and there are now two of these establishments. A Borstal Institution is situated six miles from Accra. A Training Depot for warders has been established in the same vicinity.

A specially constructed prison for prisoners suffering from tuberculosis and leprosy has been established at Ankafu near Cape Coast. There is an earning scheme in operation for convicted and unconvicted prisoners. Additional teachers and agents for discharged prisoners have been provided.

SOCIAL SERVICES

Education

The system of education is, for the most part, under the management of Education Units, that is, denominational bodies, native authorities, and, in a few cases, private organisations. To these Units the Central Government makes annually, from its funds, substantial contributions towards the cost of conducting efficiently the "assisted" primary and secondary schools, and the teacher-training colleges.

In the application of policy the Director of Education is advised by the Central Advisory Committee on Education which exercises purely advisory functions. This Committee is closely linked with the District Education Committees and on it the principal agencies concerned in education are represented. From their special knowledge of local conditions and local needs the District Education Committees can be relied upon for advice as to the best possible action based on considerations of policy.

All teachers are registered and there is legislation for the registration of schools. There are two Education Ordinances which provide for the separate control of education in the Colony and Ashanti and in the Northern Territories. These enactments contain a specific provision regarding the inspection of schools, and confer upon the Director of Education or his representative right of entry for this purpose. In the latter administration, education development is chiefly through native authorities, the Central Government training teachers and subsidising schools. In all three administrations grants from funds contributed by native authorities are proportioned to local needs.

Primary Education.—There are 21 Government primary schools and 587 Government-assisted schools. The enrolment of Government and grant-aided schools in 1947 was 93,274. Of these the girls totalled 26,232. As far as can be ascertained the enrolment, during the same period, of the many hundreds of non-assisted schools of all types was 107,284 boys and 28,573 girls.

Secondary Education.—There are the following Government-assisted secondary schools for boys: the Presbyterian Church School at Odumase in the Eastern Province, and Mfantsipim, Adisadel and St. Augustine's, situated at Cape Coast and conducted by the Methodist Church, the English Church Mission and the Roman Catholic Mission respectively. There are at Cape Coast two secondary schools for girls: Wesley Girls' Secondary School and the Roman Catholic Mission Convent of the Holy Child. Other girls' secondary schools are conducted by the Order of the Holy Paraclete (English Church Mission) at the Convent of St. Monica, Mampong, Ashanti, and by the Scottish Mission at Aburi. Achimota School is co-educational. Provision for the extension of facilities for secondary school education is included in the current ten-year development plan. Pupils of the secondary schools are presented annually for the School Certificate Examination of the University of Cambridge Local Examinations Syndicate. In December, 1947, 220 candidates from Government-assisted secondary institutions including Achimota School, passed the examination.

Training of Teachers.—The principal teacher-training courses are (i) a four-year post-primary (or, alternatively, a two-year post-secondary) course for teachers who will be employed in the primary schools, including the senior primary departments of such schools; (ii) a two-year post-primary course for teachers for infant-junior schools only, which provide a six-year primary course from which pupils may proceed to the four-year senior primary course; (iii) special courses in arts and crafts, and in domestic science. There is a proposal to increase the number and variety of special courses.

Men teachers undergo the four-year post-primary or the two-year post-secondary course at Achimota Training College; Wesley College, Kumasi; the Presbyterian Training College, Akropong; St. Augustine's Roman Catholic College, Cape Coast; and the Government Training College, Tamale. Similar courses for women are provided at Achimota Training College; the Convent of the Order of the Holy Child (Roman Catholic Mission), Cape Coast; Wesley College, Kumasi; the Scottish Mission Training College, Aburi; the Order of the Holy Paraclete Convent of St. Monica, Mampong, Ashanti; and the Basel Mission Training College, Agogo, Ashanti.

The Certificate B two-year post-primary course is now provided at the following institutions:

The Scottish Mission's Krobo College for women at Odumase, Eastern Province; The Ewe Presbyterian Church College for men at Amedzofe in the Southern Part of Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship; The Seventh-Day Adventist Mission College for men at Bekwai, Ashanti; The Joint Methodist Church and Presbyterian Church of the Gold Coast College for men now in temporary quarters at Akropong, Akwapim (to be transferred to Mampong, Ashanti); The Roman Catholic Mission (S.V.D.) College for men, now in temporary quarters at Odumase, Krobo (to be transferred to new buildings near Odomase); The Roman Catholic Mission (Cape Coast) College for men, now in temporary quarters at Amisanoo (to be transferred to new buildings at Apowa, near Sekondi); The Roman Catholic Mission (Trans-Volta) College for men at Hoehoe in the southern part of Togoland under United Kingdom Trusteeship; the Roman Catholic Mission (Ashanti) College for men at Bechem; the Government Training College, Tamale.

As a further part of the planned development of education, it is proposed to establish additional two-year colleges as follows:—A Joint Methodist
Church and Presbyterian Church College for men at Oda, in the Eastern Province of the Colony; a Government Training College at Winneba in the Western Province of the Colony. There have been approved substantial increases in the enrolment at each of the existing training colleges. All teacher-training colleges conducted by the Educational Units are grant-aided by the Central Government.

In accordance with the Central Government's scheme for the re-settlement of ex-servicemen in civilian employment 200 suitable candidates have been selected for training as teachers in teacher-training colleges with a view to their subsequent employment in schools. The ex-servicemen enjoy considerable benefits under the scheme both during their preliminary two-year teaching practice in schools and during the period of their college training.

Trade and Technical Education.—The Government Technical School at Takoradi and the three vocational senior primary Government middle boarding schools which were taken over by the military authorities for trade-training purposes during the war years have ceased to be so requisitioned. The Government Technical School has been reopened. From now on there will be a resumption of the interrupted secondary vocational courses (theoretical and practical) in building construction, carpentry and joinery, and in mechanical and electrical engineering. The school will, in addition, provide courses for apprentices in the railway department and for teachers of handicrafts in the primary schools. The former middle boarding schools have been converted into post-primary trade-training centres, and they have now completed their first task of providing supplementary courses for ex-servicemen tradesmen.

Schools for the training of subordinate technical staff are conducted by the medical, agricultural, animal health, survey, posts and telegraphs, and railway departments.

Achimota.—The Prince of Wales College and School at Achimota near Accra was opened in January, 1927, as a co-educational boarding institution. It consisted of a secondary school, a teacher-training college, and a post-secondary department in which students were prepared for the University of London Intermediate Arts and Science Examinations and the B.Sc. Engineering Examinations. Achimota was an independent institution which received a large annual subsidy from the Central Government and which, in accordance with its constitution, was administered by its own council consisting partly of elected and partly of nominated members. Similar arrangements apply to its successor institutions, which came into existence by legislation in July, 1948, and are Achimota School, Achimota Teacher-Training College, and the University College of the Gold Coast.

The University College of the Gold Coast.—The University College of the Gold Coast was brought into being by legislation in July 1948, and was expected to admit its first students in October 1948.

Private Study for University Examinations.—Substantial numbers of candidates prepare themselves by private study for a wide variety of university examinations which are regularly conducted by the Education Department on behalf of the University of London and other United Kingdom authorities.

Scholarships.—The Central Government makes large provision for scholarships for secondary education and for teacher-training courses. There are, in addition, numerous scholarships schemes for university and comparable studies at the University College of the Gold Coast and in the United Kingdom. The schemes provide for degree courses and for qualifications in medicine, dentistry, education, agriculture, technology, linguistics, etc. There are approximately 270 Gold Coast students in the United Kingdom.

Information Services

The function of the Public Relations Department is to explain Government policy to the people in such a way as to enlist their maximum understanding and co-operation. The Department is organised in five Sections: Administrative, Publications, Broadcasting, Cinema and Films.

The Broadcasting Section produces daily news bulletins, both in English and the principal vernaculars, which are broadcast from the Gold Coast Station at Accra and relayed to holders of rediffusion loudspeakers by subsidiary stations throughout the Gold Coast. It also produces regular talks, feature and musical programmes.

The chief aim of the Publications Section is to assist the local press and keep them supplied with local and foreign news. This Section is also responsible for the publication and distribution of the "Gold Coast Bulletin", 25,000 copies of which are distributed weekly throughout the Colony.

The Cinema Section possesses a variety of films, and operates seven travelling cinema vans which are used, in collaboration with Native Authorities, to give shows throughout the Colony. A small mobile cinema unit gives frequent shows in the Accra area, and two similar units have recently been acquired for use in Kumasi and Cape Coast. The Section also supervises the issue to local commercial cinemas of newsreels and interest films supplied by the Central Office of Information.

The Films Section has made a number of short films of local interest, both in colour and black and white. It is at present undergoing reorganisation, with a view to extending the scope of its activities.

The Department is being reorganised in order that its activities may be spread more widely over the country and that it may be in closer contact with local opinion. This reorganisation involves varying increases in both senior and junior staff in the Administrative, Publications, Broadcasting and Cinema Sections.

Health

Medical Officers are normally stationed at all the principal centres throughout the Gold Coast. Since 1940 staff shortage has considerably reduced the number of stations directly under medical supervision, though in 1948 the shortage has been less acute than in 1947. All stations are regularly visited and inspected. Most Medical Officers travel in their districts and give treatment at village dispensaries. The total number of dispensaries is 44.
There are 33 Government hospitals in the Gold Coast providing 1,495 beds.

In 1947 a total of 41,372 in-patients were treated in the hospitals in the Gold Coast. Out-patients numbered 570,280.

The two largest hospitals in the Gold Coast are the Gold Coast Hospital at Accra and the General Hospital at Kumasi. In 1947 the Gold Coast Hospital treated 5,956 in-patients and 41,240 out-patients. 828 major operations were performed.

The Maternity Hospital, Accra, has been extended, and now contains 60 beds and 31 cots. During 1947, 893 deliveries were conducted in this hospital. This hospital is the training centre for midwives in the Gold Coast. Forty-two pupil midwives and 31 second division nurses, who are being treated as midwives, are accommodated in the adjoining hostel.

Four State registered nurses who completed their training at the Nurses' Training College are at present pursuing a midwifery course at the Midwives Hostel. The demand for admission to the Midwives School is heavy and competition is very keen. It is proposed to open a new midwifery training school at Kumasi in the near future and plans to that end are well in hand. This will cater for the needs of girls in Ashanti and the Northern Territories and thus relieve, to some extent, the demand on the Midwives School in Accra.

The new Effia Nkwanta Hospital at Sekondi-Takoradi, has been completed, and is now occupied. The hospital accommodates 107 beds and four cots.

The Nurses Training College and Hostel which was started in Kumasi has moved to its new quarters in Accra. Its close proximity to the Gold Coast Hospital will afford the pupils opportunity of gaining practical experience in nursing which that hospital offers. At present, there are 68 pupils in training at the College and Hostel. The Senior Staff comprises two Sister Tutors, two English Mistresses, two Science Mistresses and one Home Sister. The services of the latter are shared between the College and the Midwives Hostel of the Maternity Hospital. The object of the College is to turn out African female nurses capable of filling higher nursing posts. As far as can be judged at this stage, the training scheme outlined for the College promises to be a success.

The Medical Research Institute is situated near the Gold Coast Hospital, Accra. This Institute has to handle a very large volume of work, but staff shortage has necessitated its activities being confined mostly to routine examinations.

A training laboratory has been opened and technicians for outstations receive instructions at the laboratory.

The Limb Fitting Centre continues to manufacture and carry out repair work to prosthesis, pending satisfactory arrangements with the Nigerian Government for the taking over of the work by the Limb Fitting Centre, Lagos.

An interesting feature of departmental activities is the proposal to start a central Institution at Kintampo for the training of dressers for Native Administrations, early in 1949. Initially 10 trainees will be accepted from each of the three territorial divisions of the Gold Coast. On completion of their training, these dressers will be required to staff the Native Administration dispensaries. As an interim measure, however, dressing stations for Native Administrations have been opened in approved rural areas and these are temporarily staffed by Government nurses in order to encourage Native Authorities to develop their own medical services.

Another interesting experiment is the provision of mobile dispensaries, staffed by a nurse and dispenser or by a nurse only. These travelling dispensaries are provided with stock medicines. One operates on the North road between Tamale and Prang; the second in the Sunyani-Goaso area, while the third operates in the Winneba district.

Shortage of staff makes it possible to post full time Medical Officers of Health only to Accra, Kumasi, Takoradi and Tamale. In other areas Medical Officers undertake all health duties but only to the extent that their ordinary duties allow. Senior Sanitary Superintendents are posted to the large towns.

Public health activities are extended into the more rural areas as far as staff will permit, control being chiefly exercised in the larger villages and smaller towns on the more important trade routes. Particular attention is paid to village layouts and the type of house erected on them; to the protection of water supplies and the disposal of refuse and other essential factors. Particular success in rural sanitation has followed the activities of the Native Administration in the Northern Territories. Little progress, however, can be reported in Ashanti and the Colony generally.

In 1947 in the registration areas of the Gold Coast with an estimated population of 355,780 out of a total estimated population for the whole of the Gold Coast of 3,962,692 the birth rate was 39·7 and the death rate 27·4 per 1,000 persons living.

The infantile mortality rate was 117, and the maternal mortality rate was 19·2 per 1,000 total births.

It cannot be said from the available figures that the health of the population resident in the registration areas showed any general decline in the last five years.

Infant and Ante-natal Welfare Centres are situated in Accra and Kumasi. The volume of work carried out at these and other centres is increasing steadily.

At Koforidua, Cape Coast and Sekondi, the Welfare Centres are operated by the Gold Coast Branch, British Red Cross Society. In 1947, there were 194,778 child attendances and 85,011 attendances of expectant mothers at the Welfare Centres operated by Government, the Red Cross Society and the Missions.

Labour

The Labour Department originated in 1938 with one officer stationed in Kumasi. The Headquarters are now in Accra and there are Labour Officers in Accra, Takoradi, Tarkwa and Kumasi. The Senior staff consists of a Commissioner of Labour, an Assistant Commissioner of Labour, one Senior Labour Officer and nine Labour
Officers, three of whom are Africans. There is in addition an unfilled vacancy for a Factory Inspector. Nine Labour Inspectors assist the Labour Officers in inspecting places of employment and in guiding the trade unions. As part of its post-war duties the department is responsible for the resettlement of ex-servicemen and for this purpose the Commissioner of Labour has an additional staff of four Resettlement Officers, the Assistant Commissioner of Labour acting as the Chief Resettlement Officer.

Two of the present staff of Labour Officers were selected for their experience of trade union organisation in the United Kingdom. It is part of the duties of the department to foster sound and progressive development of the trade union movement in the territory. On the 1st April, 1948, 28 registered trade unions with an approximate total paid-up membership of 30,000. This compares with 27 registered unions with an approximate membership of 11,000 on 1st April, 1947.

Welfare

A new Department of the Government, entitled the "Department of Social Welfare and Housing", was established in April, 1946.

There are five principal aims for the development of social welfare during the next few years:

(1) To introduce modern methods for the treatment of juvenile delinquency, for the prevention of juvenile crime and for the welfare of the child in need of care or protection.

(2) To establish a probation service.

(3) To promote and encourage a youth organisation.

(4) By a system of community and social centres to conduct a campaign against ignorance, illiteracy and low standards of living, and to foster a spirit of self-help and mutual assistance.

(5) To assist and encourage the establishment of women's institutes, with hostel accommodation, in the large urban areas with the object of instilling in young women an increased appreciation of the dignity of womanhood and of a sense of community and citizenship.

As regards other aspects of social welfare, an experimental school has already been opened for the occupational training of blind children; and much progress has been made in after-care of convicts by a Discharged Prisoners' Aid Society working through full-time paid agents.

The duties of welfare officers are concerned not only with the execution of Government schemes but also with the co-ordination of public and voluntary enterprise.

Knowledge has been gained in recent years in the economics of housing for persons on small incomes and efforts have been and continue to be made to adopt construction methods which will reduce the cost of building and will enable local artisans to practise the new techniques in the villages.

Government housing estates have been developed in the large towns in order to counter the evils of overcrowding and to provide accommodation for persons on small incomes and the labouring classes. Rentals in these estates are subsidised by the Government.

10. Communications

Roads

The mileage of all-weather roads, exclusive of town roads, maintained by the Public Works Department, is 2,714½ miles, made up as follows:

| Tarred or Bitumen Surface | Miles | Gravel Surface | Miles | Total Miles |
|---------------------------|-------|----------------|-------|-------------|
| Accra District            | 100½  | 146            |       | 246½        |
| Nsawam District           | 61½   | 122            |       | 183½        |
| Koforidua District        | 82½   | 105½           |       | 188½        |
| Keta District             | 1¾    | 67             |       | 68½         |
| Winneba District          | 75¾   | 156½           |       | 232¼        |
| Cape Coast District       | 102½  | 100½           |       | 203¼        |
| Takoradi District         | 35    | 227½           |       | 262¼        |
| Dunkwa District           | —     | 244¾           |       | 244¾        |
| Ashanti                   | 171¾  | 504¾           |       | 676         |
| Northern Territories      | 4     | 404¾           |       | 408¾        |

In addition, there are approximately 2,700 miles of roads maintained by the Political Administration.

The Black Volta rises in the hills near Sourkouraba, and the White Volta rises near Quahigouga, both in the French Colony of Haute Volta. These two rivers converge some 280 miles from the sea on the Ashanti-Northern Territories border and become the River Volta which flows into the sea at Ada. This river is navigable for light draught launches as far as Akuse, and, with the exception of the Krachi rapids, can be used for canoe traffic during certain seasons of the year as far as Yeji. The Ankobra River is navigable for many months of the year by surf-boats and light draught launches for a distance of 50 miles. The Tano, connected with Half Assini by the main lagoon, is navigable for light draught launches and canoes as far as Tanoso, a distance of about 60 miles. The Sutri rapids prevent this river being further utilised.

The ferry over the River Volta at Senchi is capable of taking the largest cars and lorries, and is now worked by an endless chain driven by a petrol motor placed on the ferry boat. A similar ferry is in operation over the same river at Yeji on the Kumasi-Tamale road.

Several new bridges were constructed during 1947-48, including one over the White Volta on the Bolgatanga-Bawku road.

The Government maintains a motor transport service which handles Government cargo and officials' baggage and stores arriving by sea and arranges the coastwise shipping of Government personnel and stores between ports within the colony.

In addition to their departmental duties, the officers of the Transport Department assist in carrying out the provisions of the Motor Traffic Ordinance by acting as testing and certifying officers.

Railways

Railway communication consists of a main line from Takoradi to Kumasi, thence to Accra, a distance of 366 miles, with branches,
Sekondi to Takoradi Junction (3 miles), Tarkwa to Prestea (18 miles), Aboso to Cinnamon Bippo (4 miles), Huni Valley to Kade (99 miles), and Dunkwa to Awaso (46 miles). The main line and branches are 3 feet 6 inches gauge.

The Railway and Takoradi Harbour are incorporated in one administration. The gross earnings of the administration for the year 1946/47 were £2,437,069.

Shipping

The Gold Coast was for many years at a great disadvantage in that it possessed no deep-water harbour. Jetties protected by breakwaters were built at Sekondi and Accra, for the use of surf boats and lighters.

Sekondi has been replaced by a deep-water harbour a few miles to the westward at Takoradi, which was opened to shipping in 1928. The harbour is 220 acres in extent and provides moorings for eight ocean-going ships, whilst four can be berthed alongside the main wharf, which contains a large manganese-loading transporter, and also a bauxite loading plant. There is a fifth berth for local coal traffic.

Mail and Steamship Services between the United Kingdom and the Gold Coast are maintained by Messrs. Elder Dempster Lines, Limited, the United Africa Company, Limited, and John Holt and Company, Limited.

Air

The Gold Coast is connected with the United Kingdom on the B.O.A.C. trunk route between Great Britain and West Africa. It has direct connection with the United States of America and South Africa on the Pan-American World Airways system, and is also visited by Portuguese, French and Belgian Air Lines. The West African Airways Corporation operates a coastal service to Dakar, where the British South American Airways and other international air lines may be joined.

Accra is the West African terminus of the trunk air route operated by the British Overseas Airways Corporation between the United Kingdom and West Africa. It is an International Civil Customs Airport situated 44 miles north-east of Accra. In addition to the B.O.A.C. and West African Airways Corporation’s services, it is used by the Pan-American World Airways service from New York to Johannesburg, and by the Portuguese air service between Lisbon and Laurencio Marques. French and Belgian air lines also call at Accra. There is accommodation for passengers at a hotel on the Airport.

The second Customs airport in the Gold Coast is at Takoradi, where landing facilities are maintained at a high standard although the airfield is not so large as that at Accra. This is not an international airport and is now operated at a standard sufficient only for the needs of the internal air service.

Landing grounds have been improved and tarred at Kumasi and Tamale and these are used for the internal air service, which links Accra, Takoradi, Kumasi and Tamale and is operated by West African Airways Corporation.

Posts and Telegraphs

Mails between the Gold Coast and other British Colonies on the west coast, and the United Kingdom, are exchanged frequently by vessels of Elder Dempster Lines, Limited, and at irregular intervals by vessels of other lines. Mails are exchanged overland with Togoland under French Trusteeship and the French Ivory Coast. Air mails to and from all parts of the world are exchanged four times weekly by British Overseas Airways Corporation. There is a twice weekly air mail service to Sierra Leone and the Gambia operated by West Africa Airways Corporation Limited, a twice weekly service by French air lines to all French possessions in West Africa and also an internal airmail service operated by West Africa Airways Corporation, Limited, from Accra to Kumasi and Takoradi—thrice weekly—and to Tamale—twice weekly.

There are 88 post offices and 267 postal agencies. Distribution of mails is effected principally by rail and motor. When this is not possible a runner service is employed.

There are 4,949 miles of telegraph line wire serving all the principal centres. There are 19,821 miles of telephone wire including overhead and underground cable circuits in use which link up 197 exchanges and call offices throughout the country, in addition to 29 multiconn telephone boxes. Passenger or cargo vessels entering Takoradi harbour can be connected to the colony telephone, telegraph and phonogram system. There are about 4,992 telephones in operation including those in Government offices, and extensions to the system are in progress.

Parcel post despatches are exchanged direct with the United Kingdom, South Africa and with other British colonies in West Africa. Parcels for other countries are forwarded through the United Kingdom. The C.O.D. service from the United Kingdom is extensive.

There is a coastal radio telegraph station at Takoradi and an Aeradio station at Accra. There are aeronautical telecommunication stations at Accra, Takoradi, Kumasi and Tamale.

Cable and Wireless, Limited, operate the cable station at Accra where submarine cables connect the colony with countries all over the world.

British imperial postal orders are issued and paid, and an inland and foreign money order system is also in operation. A telegraph money order service with the United Kingdom is available.

There is a direct parcel post service from the United States of America to the Gold Coast by air and by sea.

Public Finance

The funded debt of the Gold Coast amounts to £8,410,000, and at the 31st March, 1948, the total of the statutory sinking funds for the redemption of public loans stood at £1,765,355. There are no local loan issues. There is also the sum of £1,013,430 in a Supplementary Sinking Fund. The main heads of taxation are Customs and Excise and Income Tax, the yield from these sources in the financial year, 1947-48, being £4,517,962 and £3,011,257 respectively, out of a total revenue of £10,245,618.

The Customs Tariff is non-preferential.

The principal cotton manufactures, artificial silk, alcoholic liquors, tobacco, timber, certain articles of apparel, soap, petrol and kerosene, and a number of other articles are liable to specific duties.
The following articles, namely, cardigans, shirts, singlets, socks, confectionery, umbrellas and perfumed spirits are liable to alternative specific or ad valorem rates of duty, whichever is the higher.

All other articles, unless specifically exempted, are liable to an ad valorem duty of 15 per cent., except glass and glassware which is dutiable at 10 per cent., newsprint at 7½ per cent., and perfume at 33½ per cent.

| Year | Revenue (£) | Expenditure (£) |
|------|------------|----------------|
| 1938-39 | 3,780,288 | 3,489,346 |
| 1939-40 | 3,734,438 | 3,631,154 |
| 1940-41 | 3,868,830 | 3,871,624 |
| 1941-42 | 4,141,186 | 3,598,777 |
| 1942-43 | 4,331,894 | 4,153,883 |
| 1943-44 | 4,720,394 | 4,560,274 |
| 1944-45 | 5,866,665 | 4,534,612 |
| 1945-46 | 7,171,618 | 6,039,855 |
| 1946-47 | 7,567,589 | 6,630,140 |
| 1947-48 | 10,235,860 | *12,252,760 |

*Includes £1,000,000 transferred to a supplementary sinking fund.

**Currency and Banking**

Prior to 1912 and 1913 the currency consisted chiefly of British gold (comparatively rare), silver and copper. In 1912, subsidiary nickel-bronze coins (1d., ½d. and ¼d. pieces) were introduced, and in 1913 a special silver currency common to all the British West African colonies of the same weight and fineness as the corresponding British coins. The coins issued are 2s., 1s., 6d. and 3d. pieces. Owing to the great increase in the demand for currency and the difficulties in obtaining adequate supplies, it was found necessary in 1915 to make British treasury notes legal tender, and in 1916 special West African currency notes were introduced. 20s. and 10s. notes are the only values now in circulation, 2s., 2s. and 1s. notes having been withdrawn. In 1920, owing to the rapid disappearance of silver coins, an alloy coinage was introduced of the same denominations as the silver coins; and silver has now practically been withdrawn from circulation. In 1939 an improved type of alloy coin of the 2s., 1s., and 6d. denominations and a new threepenny-piece of nickel-bronze were introduced. The special West African currency silver and alloy coins and the West African currency notes are under the management of the West African Currency Board and are secured by sterling securities held by the Board. Current British gold and silver coins, West African currency silver and alloy coins, West African currency notes, and West African nickel-bronze coins are all legal tender.

The Bank of British West Africa, Ltd., opened at Accra on 1st January, 1897, and has branches at all the principal business centres in the colony. The Colonial Bank, now Barclays Bank (Dominion, Colonial and Overseas), began business at Accra in 1917, and branches have been opened at other centres. Both banks have a savings department. In 1888 a Government Savings Bank was established which is now under Post Office management. On 31st March, 1947, the amount to the credit of depositors was £2,514,272.

Accounts are kept in sterling.

**Production and Trade**

The great majority of the people of the Gold Coast are engaged in agriculture, mainly of a subsistence nature. The only important export crop is cocoa, of which 162,111 tons were exported in 1947. This was a drop of approximately 60,000 tons on the total exported in 1946, a decrease which is attributable in the main to the ravages of the "swollen shoot" disease. About 35,000 men are employed in the mining of gold, diamonds, manganese and bauxite. There are as yet few large factories in the Gold Coast. There is an important brewery in Accra, and there are large sawmills at Accra, Sekondi, Kumasi, Dunkwa, Oda, Ateiku, and in other parts of the country. A cocoa-butter factory has been built at Takoradi but has not yet commenced production.

Fishing is carried on at all the towns and villages on the coast, and inland along the rivers. The only craft used are canoes.

There is a very considerable export trade in timber, mahogany being the principal species exported. The chief exports in 1947 were as follows:

| Unit          | Quantity | Value (£) |
|---------------|----------|----------|
| Cocoa         | ton      | 180,238  |
| Gold          | fine oz. | 568,471  |
| Manganese Ore | dry ton  | 588,919  |
| Bauxite       | ton      | 95,898   |
| Diamonds      | carats   | 747,035  |
| Timber—unmanufactured | cubic ft. | 5,738,259 |
| Palm Kernels  | ton      | 3,666    |
| Rubber, raw   | lb.      | 845,153  |
| Copra         | ton      | 309      |
| Lime products :— |        |          |
| Lime juice    | gal.     | 335,273  |
| Lime oil      | gal.     | 174      |
| Lime fruits, fresh | cwt. | 1,410    |
| Palm oil      | ton      | 183      |
| Hides and Skins :— |        |          |
| (Cattle untanned | cwt. | —        |
| Other kinds   | lb.      | 57,363   |
| Coffee, raw   | lb.      | 1,582,203|

†Kola nuts

cental of 100 lb. | 190,342 |

The value of the import trade, sea-borne and overland in 1947 (exclusive of specie and currency notes) was £21,843,129, the principal imports being tobacco (all kinds), cotton piece goods, artificial silks, provisions, machinery, iron and steel manufactures, motor vehicles, tyres, medicines and drugs, fuel oil and motor spirit and cement.

†Inclusive of 127,912 centals (100 lb.) of kola nuts, valued at £132,934, exported overland from the Northern Territories (including the Northern Section of Togoland under British Mandate).
## GOLD COAST

### DISTRIBUTION OF SEA AND AIR-BORNE TRADE IN 1947

#### Imports

| Countries                        | 1947 Value | Per cent. |
|----------------------------------|------------|-----------|
| **British Empire**               |            |           |
| United Kingdom                   | £11,380,542| 52·98     |
| Australia                        | 225,924    | 1·05      |
| British East Africa              | 16,438     | 0·08      |
| British India                    | 656,051    | 3·05      |
| British West Africa              | 407,703    | 1·90      |
| Canada                           | 459,855    | 2·14      |
| New Zealand                      | 6          | —         |
| South Africa                     | 339,667    | 1·58      |
| Southern Rhodesia                | 4          | —         |
| Other parts of the British Empire| 207,931    | 0·97      |
| **Total British Empire**         | 13,694,121 | 63·75     |
| **Foreign Countries**            |            |           |
| Argentina                        | 2,473      | 0·01      |
| Belgian Congo                    | 50,522     | 0·24      |
| Belgium                          | 1,170,810  | 5·45      |
| Canary Islands                   | 26,376     | 0·12      |
| Czechoslovakia                   | 495,679    | 2·30      |
| Denmark                          | 19,543     | 0·09      |
| Dutch West Indies                | 515,500    | 2·40      |
| France                           | 360,367    | 1·68      |
| French Possessions in India      | 6,487      | 0·03      |
| Italy                            | 602,355    | 2·80      |
| Japan                            | 131,260    | 0·61      |
| Mexico                           | 8,655      | 0·04      |
| Netherlands                      | 1,049,835  | 4·88      |
| Norway                           | 23,732     | 0·12      |
| Poland                           | 34,460     | 0·11      |
| Sweden                           | 1,303      | 0·06      |
| Switzerland                      | 92,776     | 0·43      |
| United States of America         | 2,972,566  | 13·84     |
| Other Foreign Countries          | 222,938    | 1·04      |
| **Total Foreign Countries**      | 7,787,637  | 36·25     |
| **Grand Total**                  | 21,481,758 | —         |

#### Exports

| Countries                        | 1947 Value | Per cent. |
|----------------------------------|------------|-----------|
| **British Empire**               |            |           |
| United Kingdom                   | £10,484,734| 50·49     |
| Australia                        | 443,197    | 2·13      |
| British East Africa              | 224        | —         |
| British India                    | 7          | —         |
| British West Africa              | 106,327    | 0·51      |
| Canada                           | 471,448    | 2·27      |
| New Zealand                      | 146,599    | 0·71      |
| South Africa                     | 171,565    | 0·83      |
| Other parts of the British Empire| 50,496     | 0·24      |
| **Total British Empire**         | 11,874,597 | 57·18     |
| **Foreign Countries**            |            |           |
| Belgian Congo                    | 15,610     | 0·08      |
| Belgium                          | 238,849    | 1·15      |
| Czechoslovakia                   | 75,193     | 0·36      |
| Denmark                          | 68,408     | 0·33      |
| France                           | 14,828     | 0·07      |
| Netherlands                      | 294,714    | 1·42      |
| Norway                           | 364,368    | 1·75      |
| Poland                           | 16         | —         |
| Soviet Union                     | 353,332    | 1·70      |
| Sweden                           | 97,612     | 0·47      |
| Switzerland                      | 93,885     | 0·45      |
| United States of America         | 7,006,463  | 33·74     |
| Other Foreign Countries          | 268,909    | 1·30      |
| **Total Foreign Countries**      | 8,892,187  | 42·82     |
| **Grand Total**                  | 20,766,784 | —         |

Fuller particulars may be obtained from the Annual Trade Report of the Gold Coast.

*Imports*

| Year | From U.K. | From Other British Countries | From Elsewhere | Total |
|------|-----------|------------------------------|----------------|-------|
| 1938 | £6,648,796| £523,802                     | £3,207,725     | £10,380,323 |
| 1939 | 7,199,842 | 506,466                      | 2,919,976      | 10,626,284 |
| 1940 | 4,640,607 | 867,938                      | 2,122,738      | 7,631,283 |
| 1941 | 3,739,084 | 1,014,633                     | 1,514,889      | 6,268,606 |
| 1942 | 5,787,290 | 1,836,945                     | 2,253,063      | 9,877,298 |
| 1943 | 6,391,934 | 1,364,326                     | 2,412,206      | 10,167,566 |
| 1944 | 5,841,938 | 1,418,808                     | 2,567,348      | 9,828,094 |
| 1945 | 5,867,597 | 1,270,865                     | 2,965,478      | 10,103,940 |
| 1946 | 8,423,087 | 1,492,332                     | 2,718,193      | 12,633,612 |
| 1947 | 11,380,542| 2,313,579                     | 7,787,637      | 21,481,758 |

* These figures refer to calendar years.
*Exports (including Re-exports)*

| Year | To U.K. | To Other British Countries | To Elsewhere | Total |
|------|---------|---------------------------|--------------|-------|
| 1938 | £11,558,859 | £307,161 | £3,559,476 | £15,425,496 |
| 1939 | £12,320,235 | £351,902 | £3,563,151 | £16,235,288 |
| 1940 | £6,450,817 | £4,209,188 | £3,663,837 | £14,323,842 |
| 1941 | £4,297,377 | £7,264,613 | £1,986,419 | £13,548,409 |
| 1942 | £9,963,505 | £1,361,633 | £1,225,036 | £12,550,174 |
| 1943 | £9,738,101 | £688,613 | £2,204,568 | £12,631,282 |
| 1944 | £7,884,109 | £684,010 | £3,746,081 | £12,314,200 |
| 1945 | £7,970,050 | £1,209,838 | £5,946,259 | £15,126,147 |
| 1946 | £10,483,391 | £1,580,782 | £7,552,701 | £19,616,874 |
| 1947 | £10,484,734 | £1,389,863 | £8,892,187 | £20,766,784 |

* These figures refer to calendar years.

**Customs Receipts**

| Year | Total |
|------|-------|
| 1942 | £2,674,597 |
| 1943 | £2,903,417 |
| 1944 | £2,780,041 |
| 1946 | £3,558,666 |
| 1947 | £4,212,943 |

**Shipping Entered and Cleared**

| Year | British Tonnage | Total Tonnage |
|------|----------------|---------------|
| 1938 | 2,681,484      | 4,816,667     |
| 1939 | 2,547,933      | 4,334,463     |
| 1940 | 2,392,483      | 3,563,202     |
| 1941 | 2,086,426      | 3,145,018     |
| 1882 | Sir Samuel Rowe, K.C.M.G. |
| 1884 | William A. G. Young, Esq., C.M.G. |
| 1885 | Sir W. B. Griffith, K.C.M.G. |
| 1900 | Sir Matthew Nathan, K.C.M.G. |
| 1904 | Sir John P. Rodger, K.C.M.G. |
| 1910 | J. J. Thorburn, C.M.G. |
| 1912 | Sir Hugh C. Clifford, K.C.M.G. |
| 1919 | Brig.-Gen. Sir F. Gordon Guggisberg, K.C.M.G., D.S.O., R.E. |
| 1927 | Sir Alexander Ransford Slater, K.C.M.G., C.B.E. |
| 1932 | Sir Thomas Shenton W. Thomas, K.C.M.G., O.B.E. |
| 1934 | Sir A. W. Hodson, K.C.M.G. |
| 1941 | Sir A. C. M. Burns, K.C.M.G. (later G.C.M.G.). |
| 1948 | Sir Gerald H. Creasy, K.C.M.G., O.B.E. |

**Executive and Legislative Councils**

**Executive Council**

The Governor (President).
The Colonial Secretary.
The Chief Commissioner of the Colony.
The Chief Commissioner of Ashanti.
The Chief Commissioner of the Northern Territories.
The Attorney-General.
The Financial Secretary.
The Director of Medical Services.
Secretary for Rural Development.
Nana Tsibu Darku IX, O.B.E.
Charles William Tachie-Menson.
Dr. Isaac Boateng Asafu-Adjaye.

**Legislative Council**

The Legislative Council is composed of the following members:

President—The Governor, or such person appointed by him, with the approval of the Secretary of State, to be the President.

Ex-officio Members (6)—The Colonial Secretary; The Chief Commissioner of the Colony; The Chief Commissioner of Ashanti; The Chief Commissioner of the Northern Territories; The Attorney-General; The Financial Secretary.

**Import and Export Traffic by Air**

| Year | British | Total |
|------|---------|-------|
| 1945 | Kilos   | Kilos |
| 1946 | 199,569 | 206,832 |
| 1947 | 118,509 | 119,907 |
| 1947 | 98,372  | 108,824 |

**Governors of the Gold Coast**

1874 Captain George Cumine Strahan, R.A.
1876 Captain C. C. Lees, C.M.G. (Lieut.-Gov.).
1876 Sanford Freeling, Esq., C.M.G.
1878 Captain C. C. Lees, C.M.G. (Lieut.-Gov.).
1879 Herbert Taylor Ussher, Esq., C.M.G.
1880 W. Brandford Griffith, Esq., C.M.G. (Lieut.-Gov.).
1881 Sir Samuel Rowe, K.C.M.G.
1882 Captain C. A. Moloney, C.M.G. (Admir.).
1882 W. Brandford Griffith, Esq., C.M.G. (Lieut.-Gov.).
Elected Members (18)—Nine provincial members elected from the Eastern and Western Provinces of the Colony; four Ashanti members; five municipal members.

Nominated Members (6)—Six members nominated by the Governor.

FOREIGN CONSULAR REPRESENTATIVES

Consuls
Denmark—J. B. Saxel (Honorary Consul), Accra.
France—Charles Renner (Consul), Accra.
Liberia—C. E. M. Abbensets (Consul), Sekondi.
Netherlands—J. E. Fischer (Honorary Consul), Accra.
Norway—H. F. Blower (Honorary Consul), Sekondi.
Switzerland—R. Knittel (Honorary Consul), Accra.
United States of America—William L. Peek (Consul), Accra.

Vice-Consuls
Belgium—C. L. Leiterer (Vice-Consul), Accra.
France—G. Becquey (Vice-Consul), Accra.
Greece—John Leventis (Honorary Vice-Consul), Accra.
Liberia—J. C. Lucas (Honorary Vice-Consul), Accra.
Portugal—M. de A. Santos (Honorary Vice-Consul), Accra.
United States of America—Scudder Mersman (Vice-Consul), Accra.

BIBLIOGRAPHY

Gold Coast Institutions, by C. Hayford. Sweet & Maxwell, 1903, 15s.
Hausa Folk-Lore, by R. S. Rattray. Oxford, 1913, 30s. net.
A History of the Gold Coast and Ashanti, by W. W. Claridge. Murray, 1915, 36s.
A Vanished Dynasty—Ashanti, by Sir. F. Fuller. Murray, 1921, 16s.
Akan Laws and Customs, by J. B. Danquah. Routledge, 1928, 10s. 6d.
Ashanti Law and Constitution, by R. S. Rattray. Oxford, 1929, 25s.
A Bibliography of the Gold Coast. A. W. Cardinall, 1931.
Tribes of the Ashanti Hinterland, by R. S. Rattray. Oxford, 1932.
The Gold Coast, 1931, by A. W. Cardinall. Government Printer, Accra, 1932, 7s. 6d.
The Gold Coast, Yesterday and Today, by P. Redmayne. Chatto & Windus, 1938, 10s. 6d.
A Short History of the Gold Coast, by W. E. Ward. Longmans Green, 1945, 3s. 6d.

CIVIL ESTABLISHMENT

Notes
In the following particulars of the Civil Establishment:

Scale A is as follows:
£450 for 3 years, 510–30–660, 720–30–960, 1,000.

Scale B is as follows:
£450 for 3 years, 510–20–610, 660–30–900.

Scale C is as follows:
£735–30–825.

Scale M2 is as follows:
£690 for 3 years, 720–30–1,000, 1,080–30–1,200.

To the above quoted basic salaries, expatriation pay is added in the case of expatriate officers according to the following table:

| Basic Salary | Expatriation Pay |
|--------------|------------------|
| £830–1,050   | £300             |
| £1,051–1,175 | £350             |
| £1,176–1,350 | £400             |
| £1,351–1,600 | £450             |
| £1,601–1,850 | £500             |
| Over £1,850  | £600             |

Officers provided by Government with furnished quarters are charged rent, assessed in accordance with salary.

GOVERNOR
Governor—Sir Gerald Hallen Creasy, K.C.M.G., O.B.E. £4,500, plus £1,500 duty allowance.

ADMINISTRATION

Secretariat
Colonial Secretary—R. Scott, C.M.G. £2,050.
Financial Secretary—R. P. Armitage, M.B.E. £1,550.
Under Secretary—S. Macdonald-Smith. £1,500.
Deputy Financial Secretary—H. J. N. Chapman. £1,200.
Senior Assistant Colonial Secretaries—G. E. Sinclair; C. D. A. Pullan; A. T. Kerr (Acting); P. Wilkins. £1,200.
Assistant Colonial Secretaries—H. M. Roemmel; N. F. Ribeiro-Ayeh; W. H. A. Hanschell; J. C. B. Deakin; S. R. J. Kingston; P. S. G. Smith; H. Millar-Craig; J. B. Hooper; E. H. Roach; D. A. Anderson; J. C. Anderson; D. L. C. Price, M.C.; L. L. le P. Gardner; D. P. Hardy; A. W. M. Dickie; J. B. Heigham; W. V. Dickinson, M.B.E.; G. D. Lintott; M. de N. Ensor; L. A. Bullwinkle; P. F. de C. du Sautoy; R. N. M. Milton. Scale A.
Secretary for Rural Development—R. H. Saloway C.I.E., O.B.E. £1,650.
Secretary for Commerce and Industry—F. Leach, O.B.E., M.C. £1,650.
Secretary for the Civil Service—G. Hadow, O.B.E. £1,650.
Secretary and Executive Officer, Town and Country Planning Board—A. E. S. Alcock. £1,100.
Secretary and Executive Officer, Industrial Development Board—Vacant. £800.
Statistician—A. B. Reisz. £1,100.
Chief Commissioner, Colony—T. R. O. Magin, C.M.G. £1,650.
Chief Commissioner, Ashanti—C. O. Butler, C.M.G., E.D. £1,650.
Chief Commissioner, Northern Territories—Vacant. £1,650.

Class I. Assistant Chief Commissioners, Commissioner of Labour, Director of Social Welfare and Housing, Senior Judicial Adviser.—G. N. Burden, M.B.E.; E. N. Jones, O.B.E.; W. H. Beeton; D. A. Sutherland; A. J. Loveridge, O.B.E.; J. K. G. Syme. £1,350.

Class II. Deputy Financial Secretary, Senior Assistant Colonial Secretaries, Senior District Commissioners, Registrar of Co-operative Societies, Judicial Advisers, Deputy Director of Social Welfare and Housing.—H. V. Wimsurst; W. B. Smith; J. Dixon; R. G. Cooper; Hon. H. W. Amherst; W. A. S. Cole; A. C. Spooner; R. E. Walker; G. E. Sinclair; H. J. N. Chapman; A. C. Russell; M. G. Hewson; C. D. A. Pullan; P. Wilkins. £1,200.
Classes III and IV. Assistant Colonial Secretaries, District Commissioners and Assistant District Commissioners—R. W. Woolley; H. E. Devaux; M. M. Miln; A. F. Kerr; R. K. Talbot; C. G. R. Amory; V. H. K. Littlewood; G. B. Cartland; L. A. Britton; A. T. Kerr; T. A. Mead; A. Campbell; H. J. P. Crawford; R. E. Crabb; P. Campbell; J. Duncan; H. M. Roemmle; A. T. de B. Wilmot; T. Hindle; D. M. Allen; M.B.E.; A. W. Davies; E. S. Packham; M. D. T. Gass; L. L. le P. Gardner; J. H. F. MacGiffin; P. L. Lindsell; J. N. Matson; W. H. A. Hanschell; P. W. C. Dennis; D. S. D. McWilliam; D. S. Turner; J. C. B. Deakin; C. P. Mercier; B. W. A. T. Knight; S. R. J. Kingston; P. S. G. Smith; D. W. Milne; I. W. Bennett, M.B.E.; N. F. Ribeiro-Ayeh; R. M. E. Markham; D. V. Mackay, D.S.O., E.D.; K. A. Busia; A. S. Jones; G. N. E. Charles, D.S.O.; A. L. Adu; A. R. Elliot; G. M. Darling; S. K. Anthony, M.B.E.; J. C. M. Paton; A. J. Townsend, M.C.; F. E. Taylor; J. B. Heigham; J. A. R. Forster; N. O. Dobbs; A. M. Frank, M.C.; A. Howe; W. V. Dickinson, M.B.E.; C. M. Kelly; H. Millar-Craig; D. M. Dyer-Ball; J. S. Duthie; M. J. Patteson; J. D. E. Barnard; E. B. S. Alton, M.B.E., M.C.; J. B. Hooper; G. D. Lintott; E. H. Roach; M. de N. Ensor; J. E. F. Codrington; D. Earle; W. J. Caldow; R. J. Moxon; W. N. L. Goldie-Scott; D. L. C. Price, M.C.; I. E. Cochran; N. Hope; R. H. Bennett; D. A. Anderson; J. S. Lawson; J. A. Cowley; P. Helps; R. M. Denby; L. A. Bullwinkle; I. F. Baillie; A. H. Murray; B. G. S. Bumpus; T. J. Lennard; A. B. Smith, D.S.O., D.F.C.; P. F. de C. du Sautoy; J. C. Anderson; J. Green; J. H. D. Dickson; R. J. Wallace; W. S. Crane; R. C. Parkin; J. M. L. Peake; C. G. Ferguson; J. B. Begent; D. Heaton; A. W. M. Dickie; H. T. B. Rooke; R. M. N. Milton; A. J. Willing; F. H. Goodwin; A. S. Faiz; A. G. Cross; W. R. Hancock; A. K. Cooper; W. G. C. Ferris; W. M. Mackay; W. Redhead; R. W. Le Bas; Rickman; P. W. Thorogood; O. R. Blair; C. M. Weatherburn. Scale A.

ACCOUNTANT-GENERAL

Accountant-General—R. S. Hector. £1,300.
Deputy Accountant-General—W. C. Watson. £1,100.
Senior Accountants—J. H. Anderson; F.H.R. Paddick. Scale B.
Accountants—C. A. Ackah; B. R. Leese; A. A. Tournay; A. J. Prah; H. A. Grant. Scale B.

AGRICULTURE

Director of Agriculture—D. H. Urquhart. £1,400.
Deputy Director of Agriculture—B. T. Steemson, E.D. £1,200.
Assistant Directors of Agriculture—J. M. Wingate, O.B.E.; C. L. Skidmore; J. D. Broatch. £1,100.
Agricultural Officers—C. W. Lynn, M.B.E.; J. M. Ward; A. E. Moss; A. D. T. Montagu; A. Jones; F. R. B. Mullan; M. Akenhead; J. Gordon; J. O. Torto; J. Cofie; G. R. Spurrell, E.D.; R. Smith; J. Paine; J. H. Hinds; D. Westwood; D. J. Billes; B. J. Silk; P. S. Hammond; W. B. Mason; I. Sibson; A. Lesslie; L. F. Derrough; R. W. Eccles; H. Owen; M. A. Blane; F. A. Leeds; J. L. Jollans; P. S. Castle; W. Smith. Scale A.

Agricultural Economist—C. N. Coombes. Scale A.
Chief Inspector of Plants and Produce—S. T. Phillips. £1,000.
Senior Inspectors of Plants and Produce—J. H. Bowen; V. L. Ferguson. £735–30–825.
Specialists—E. F. S. Shepherd; J. Bowden; P. H. Nye; C. A. Lister; W. A. Hughes; C. A. Thorold; R. A. Neve. Scale A.
Chief Agricultural Survey Officer—E. L. Hay, M.B.E. £1,100.
Agricultural Survey Officers—C. D. Twigden; R. R. H. Cave Lloyd; R. J. Clark; J. A. Howarth; E. Millington; A. J. McNair, M.C.; E. G. Waller; W. E. M. Hill; J. K. Dansu; J. E. Osei Tutu; S. P. Pobee; S. A. Adow; P. K. A. Badoo; V. E. Osei; C. B. Amonoo; E. V. W. Quartey; H. B. Daniel; A. C. de Graft; R. J. Hayfron; R. A. Silverlock; A. L. Titley; J. M. Paterson. Scale A.

AIR SERVICES

Airport Manager—N. E. M. Giles. Scale C.3.
Aerodrome Fire Superintendent—W. Ramage. Scale C.3.

ANIMAL HEALTH

Director of Veterinary Services—S. Simpson. £1,350.
Senior Veterinary Officer—R. H. Hutchinson. Scale A.
Veterinary Officers—W. A. G. Richter. Scale A.

AUDIT

Director of Audit—R. F. Pinder, O.B.E. £1,300.
Deputy Director of Audit—J. E. Barker. £1,100.
Principal Auditor—D. P. Uttley. £1,050.
Senior Auditors—C. J. Guthrie; C. Hunter; V. L. Budge; E. L. Clegg. £810–30–900.
Auditors and Assistant Auditors—J. H. Higgins, A. B. Warrick; L. S. H. Clode; J. E. Ayettey, M.B.E.; R. D. Pead; K. R. L. Evans; F. H. Sims; D. B. Chatterton; E. N. O. Hammond; P. T. Warr; R. J. Martin. £450, £450, £450, £510–20–610, £660–30–780.

BROADCASTING

Superintendent of Broadcasting—J. W. Foster. £1,100.
Senior Broadcast Officers—T. A. Huxtable; E. E. Frewin. Scale B.

COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY

Secretary for Commerce and Industry—F. Leach, O.B.E., M.C. £1,650.
Assistant Controllers of Imports and Exports—H. Tugwell; F. C. Hopton; F. P. T. MacDonald; F. L. Dickson; P. Grant.

CO-OPERATION

Registrar of Co-operative Societies—M. G. Hewson. £1,200.
Deputy Registrar of Co-operative Societies—A. N. Alema. £1,100.
Assistant Registrars—E. W. A. B. Sam; A. E. Chinbuah; C. G. Joannides; D. Naysmith; K. B. Ayensu; C. R. Gambrill; E. F. Herbert. Scale A. I. F. Baillie (seconded).

CUSTOMS AND EXCISE

Comptroller of Customs and Excise—C. W. Hayward. £1,300.
Deputy Comptroller of Customs and Excise—P. A. G. Gummer. £1,150.
Assistant Comptroller of Customs—A. G. Davidson, E.D. £1,050.

Senior Collectors—M. S. Murphy; A. D. W. Allen; A. G. N. Jones; E. G. Gulliver; P. McDevitt. Scale B.

Collectors—C. D. Wilson; I. T. Agbettor; W. G. Dako; C. L. Watson; J. A. Turner; W. C. Mensah, M.B.E.; F. A. Arthur; S. M. Codjoe; N. W. Hyder; E. Buckley; R. Maxwell; R. F. J. Oxley; L. J. Zwennes; R. J. Sagoe; A. Asare Djan. Scale B.

EDUCATION

Director of Education—T. Barton, O.B.E. £1,400.
Deputy Director of Education—K. J. Dickens. £1,200.
Assistant Director of Education—W. S. Bickerstaff. £1,100.
Principal, Teacher Training College—M. F. G. Wentworth, O.B.E. £1,100.
Senior Education Officers—J. Wilson; J. R. Marshall; J. L. Coulson; T. C. Watkins; B. E. Carman; Miss E. P. Clark; F. E. Joselin. Scale A.
Education Officers—J. A. Addo; N. C. Lawrence; E. Tagoe; C. S. Thompson; C. M. O. Mate; Miss I. M. Travis; Miss E. W. G. Gladstone; P. R. Mosedale; J. M. Bannochie; C. Davidson; R. N. Bryant; I. M. Stewart; T. T. Buchanan; D. W. Dudley Smith; L. E. Harrison, J. R. T. Nicholas; A. G. Page; E. D. Roberts; A. F. Neale; E. H. Nicholson; J. G. A. Pattinson; W. G. Jones; J. G. Rodger; Miss P. F. V. Awoonor-Renner; W. Grason; E. D. M. Walse; G. A. Winter; M. F. Dei-Anang. Scale A.
Principal, Government Technical School—D. A. Russell. £1,100.

ELECTRICAL DEPARTMENT

Chief Electrical Engineer—R. Hugh Jones. £1,200.
Senior Electrical Engineers—C. E. Prockter; H. Smith; D. H. Skinner. Scale A.
Electrical Engineers—A. R. Townsend; E. A. Sakey; P. A. Trayler; F. W. Lunau; L. G. Jones. Scale A.
Senior Accountant—R. A. Bignell. Scale B.
Accountant—A. Maule. Scale B.

FORESTRY

Chief Conservator of Forests—R. L. Brooks. £1,350.
Deputy Chief Conservator of Forests—D. Stevenson. £1,150.
Conservators of Forests—W. T. S. Brown; G. M. Tolmie; F. E. Hughes. £1,100.
Senior Assistant Conservators—A. Foggie; I. W. G. Cameron; I. A. Beveridge; F. G. Harper; D. Kinloch. Scale A.
Assistant Conservators—A. C. Russell; C. J. Taylor, M.B.E.; R. M. Harley; H. A. Douglas; D. C. Duff; D. A. Lane; W. A. Miller; W. B. Collins; M. T. Horwood; J. M. Ramsay; D. M. M. Kellas; G. H. Thompson; J. J. Lawrie; J. Gordon; R. G. Morgan; D. Sim; E. A. Anderson; J. C. Wilson; D. A. J. Wood; F. W. T. Bodeker; G. S. MacPherson; P. A. Francis; J. M. Wheelan. Scale A.

GEOLOGICAL SURVEY

Director—T. Hirst. £1,350.
Deputy Director—D. A. Bates, M.B.E. £1,100.
Senior Geologist—J. F. Feakes. Scale A.
Geologists—A. T. Crow; W. B. Tevendale; L. O. Gay; D. Aitkenhead. Scale A.
Petrologist—Vacant. Scale A.

INCOME TAX

West Africa

Commissioner of Income Tax—W. B. Dare. £1,500.
Deputy Commissioner—Vacant. £1,300.
Senior Assessment Officer—W. A. Stephenson. Scale B.
Assessment Officer—Vacant. Scale B.

Gold Coast

Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax—R. C. Gibbons. £1,100.
Assistant Commissioners—B. J. Bowick; F. G. Reynolds. £1,000.
Senior Assessment Officer—A. F. Page.
Assessment Officer—A. L. Earp. Scale B.

JUDICIAL

Chief Justice—Mark Wilson. £2,050.
Puisne Judges—A. C. Smith; J. H. Coussey; C. A. Hooper, C.M.G.; J. Jackson; K. A. Korsah, C.B.E.; S. O. Quashie-Idun; Ragnar Hyne. £1,500.
Chief Registrar—D. H. Shackles. £1,100.
District Magistrates, £1,500—G. Lingley; C. S. Acolatse; W. B. Van Lare; E. A. L. Bannerman; J. C. Burt; H. B. Benson; I. V. Elyan; H. C. Smith; A. C. Harrison; T. A. Dennison. Scale A.

LABOUR

Commissioner of Labour—G. N. Burden, M.B.E. £1,350.
Assistant Commissioner of Labour and Chief Resettlement Officer—L. C. Whitcombe, E.D. £1,100.
Senior Labour Officer—I. G. Jones. £1,100.
Labour Officers—O. Kitching; S. O. Gaisie; J. S. Annan; J. V. L. Phillips; E. J. Bailey; D. W. Mackenzie; L. Saich. Scale A.

LANDS

Commissioner of Lands—G. W. Stacpoole, E.D. £1,150.
Assistant Commissioners of Lands—C. F. Williams; F. E. Webster; F. G. Adamson; R. W. Turner; A. R. Baster; R. B. Brown; C. J. E. Grundy. Scale A.
Valuer—C. C. Hipgrave, M.B.E. Scale A.
Record Draughtsmen—H. Stephenson. Scale C.1.2.3.
District Valuers—W. Robertson. Scale A.

LEGAL

Attorney-General—P. F. Branigan. £1,650.
Solicitor-General—F. K. Ewart. £1,300.
Crown Counsel—P. N. Dalton; R. M. H. Rodwell; A. N. Buckmaster; G. V. C. Young; J. McKeon. Scale A.

MEDICAL

Director of Medical Services—J. G. S. Turner. £1,650.
Deputy Director of Medical Services—W. S. Ormiston. £1,500.
Assistant Directors of Medical Services—W. J. MacClintock; H. J. Bermingham; R. Ramsay. £1,400.
Principal Matron—Miss G. R. Nichols, M.B.E. £750.
Senior Specialist—A. J. Hawe. £1,400.
Specialists—C. Bowesman; G. Watt, M.B.E.; S. W. Cooper; J. S. McGregor; G. F. T. Saunders; B. A. S. Russell. £1,300.

Medical Officers—G. M. Minifie; D. R. Griffith; E. R. Gauld; N. Q. Hesse; W. R. Phillips; C. H. Bannerman; E. W. Q. Bannerman; M. Davy-Hayford; I. J. Amorin; A. H. Chenard de la Giraudais; J. R. S. Innes; A. H. Hall; P. M. J. Phillips; N. Gray; M. P. Browne; R. W. Palmer; D. B. George; R. A. Allen; G. C. Franklin; J. D. Greene; G. McHugh; E. Akwei; C. Odamten-Easmon; E. J. Djoleto; I. F. K. Hughton; M. M. Hughes; R. F. Antonio; G. M. Edington; T. K. Howat; G. A. Owen; A. H. Dunnett; M. J. Colbourne; J. C. V. Murphy; R. H. O. Bannerman; J. N. Robertson; T. Golebski; S. Wozniak; J. Braun; C. W. J. Hingston; G. W. R. Macgregor; F. R. Roberts; L. Goodman; J. L. Q. Vanderpuije; B. J. Champicki. Scale A.

Medical Officer i/c Leprosy Work—A. McKelvie. Scale A.

Alienist Officer—Vacant. Scale A.

Chief Accountant and Executive Officer—D. Howie. Scale B.

Government Chemists—F. R. Johnson, M.B.E.; R. G. W. Willcocks. Scale A.

Dental Surgeons—E. M. Brown; I. St. C. Alderdice. Scale A.

HEALTH BRANCH

Assistant Director of Medical Services—J. H. Dobbin. £1,400.

Senior Health Officers—£1,200.

Medical Officers of Health—K. C. MacKenzie; H. C. Armstrong; H. M. Carson; D. Scott; H. B. I. Russell; W. R. Williams; B. B. Waddy. Scale A.

Lady Medical Officers—Miss M. E. Galt-Gamble; Mrs. Wozniak. Scale A.

Medical Entomologist—K. R. S. Morris. Scale A.

Research Assistant—M. G. Morris. £600–30–750.

Senior Pathologist, Laboratory Service—G. Robinson. £1,200.

Pathologist—R. D. Reid. £690, £690, £690–30–960, £1,000, £1,080–30–1,200.

MINES

Chief Inspector of Mines—D. M. McNair, M.B.E. £1,300.

Senior Inspector of Mines—Vacant.

Inspectors of Mines—F. J. Ryeland; J. F. McLaren; C. W. F. Bond. Scale A.

Inspector of Machinery—H. B. E. Waters. Scale A.

POLICE

Commissioner of Police—M. K. N. Collens. £1,350.

Deputy Commissioner of Police—Vacant. £1,150.

Assistant Commissioners of Police—S. C. Sinclair; J. N. Franklin. £1,050.

Superintendents—W. A. Goven; L. A. Hagen; C. H. Imray; G. C. Grand; E. M. Berkeley-Barton; D. G. Carruthers; S. S. Hordern; H. P. Morris; T. D. Widdup; I. G. Weir; A. L. Alexander; J. C. Hooton, M.B.E.; A. G. Ames.

Senior Assistant Superintendents and Assistant Superintendents—F. J. Doxat; L. Chapman; A. R. Millar; J. T. A. Bailey; J. C. Ofuatey-Kodjoe; C. W. Quist; C. H. K. Strike; C. R. Eldelsten; F. J. Hockley; W. H. Gillespie; P. J. H. Cooper; A. G. West-Pierce; W. R. Reeve; A. O. Bather; C. F. Cobb; E. Brooks, M.C.; A. W. Fordyce; B. A. Lane; J. B. Lees; G. Skelton-Smith; T. W. Jenkins; A. R. Ampaw; E. R. T. Madjitiey; S. A. Amable; S. E. Anamang; R. A. S. Borland; E. R. Oughton. Scale B.

POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS

Postmaster-General—A. J. Borland. £1,300.

Deputy Postmaster-General—H. R. Senior. £1,150.

Engineer-in-Chief—Vacant. £1,150.

Senior Engineers—F. Paltridge; J. Macklin; F. J. Greer. Scale A.

Engineers—E. T. K. Cann; J. R. F. Robertson; T. F. Hall; J. E. Browne; E. M. Koram; F. C. Dickinson; J. B. P. Pirie; P. S. Riddell; B. Torto; A. J. Addison. Scale A.

Principal, Technical School—Vacant. £720–30–960, £1,000.

Master, Technical School—C. A. Payne. Scale A.

Wireless Engineers—D. J. Robinson; R. G. Sharpe. Scale A.

Workshop Superintendent—C. R. Barsted. Scale B.

Senior Assistant Controllers of Posts—A. B. Cawthra; N. Smith; H. Metcalfe; T. Hoey. Scale B.

Assistant Controllers of Posts—F. E. B. Clark; E. A. Wilson; J. D. Clottey; A. P. O. Maslen; W. G. J. Cruikshank; R. Dodd; S. C. Allotey; S. G. Yeboa; C. C. Nunoo; J. Gath; G. R. Jones. Scale B.

Chief Accountant—A. W. Beardmore. £1,050.

Assistant Controller, Post Office Savings Bank—R. E. Ramsay. Scale B.

Accountants—S. Q. Odoi; F. Stock; C. K. F. Adapoe; R. R. Yearley; Ainsworth. Scale B.

PRINTING

Government Printer—G. Worthington. £900.

PRISONS

Director of Prisons—O. V. Garratt. £1,100.

Deputy Director—H. C. Wheatley. £900.

PUBLIC RELATIONS

Public Relations Officer—J. Lillie Costello, M.C. £1,500.

Assistant Public Relations Officer (Publications)—W. E. Hall.

Assistant Public Relations Officer (Administration)—Vacant. Scale A.

Director Cameraman—W. F. Lawrie. Scale B.

Senior Programmes Officer—T. A. Huxtable.

Films Officer—H. E. Lironi. Scale B.

PUBLIC WORKS

Director of Public Works—E. A. Boyce. £1,500.

Deputy Director of Public Works—D. W. McCulloch. £1,200.

Assistant Directors of Public Works—F. S. Drake. £1,100.

Executive Engineers, Grade I—D. R. McKinlay; G. Paltridge; J. Moore; G. T. Croad; E. C. Maguire.

Executive Engineers, Grade II—S. C. Carver; A. O. Barrie; C. M. Blunn; A. M. Milne; R. F. Batley; R. K. Hartglass; E. C. Martin; W. Batley; D. A. Dabrowski; S. Schwed; J. B. Staunton; J. K. Wardzala; L. F. Mulligan; H. L. Binning. Scale A.

Development Officers—V. S. C. Price. £500–15–530–20–590–30–800.
Senior Public Health Engineer—E. L. Smith. £1,100.

Government Chemist—J. S. Dunn. Scale A.

Senior Mechanical Engineer—H. M. W. Tracy. Scale A.

Mechanical Engineers—J. Dobson; G. J. D. Whiteman. Scale A.

Chief Architect—A. F. D. Seale. £1,100.

Architects—R. G. Parker; H. Norcliffe; C. W. Turner. Scale A.

Chief Accountant—Vacant. £1,100.

Assistant Chief Accountant—G. E. Dickson. Scale B.

Chief Stores Accountant—Vacant. Scale B.

Accountants—A. E. Edwards, E.D.; J. A. Barnor; T. P. Styles; T. W. V. Search; G. H. Jeffries; V. O. Albertson; S. N. Styles; A. V. Warrillow; M. B. K. Unicorn; J. A. Hammond; T. A. Addy; T. C. Avery. Scale B.

RAILWAY AND TAKORADI HARBOUR

General Manager and Harbour Authority—W. H. Salkield. £1,650.

Assistant to the General Manager—F. J. Bush, M.B.E. £1,050.

Chief Accountant—Vacant. £1,150.

Senior Accountants—E. Oldham; J. O. Frappell. Scale B.

Accountants—D. V. Summers; E. Johnston; J. E. Blankson; T. G. Kenyon; W. N. Mensah; G. Law; G. E. Culpin. Scale B.

Chief Storekeeper—Vacant. Scale B.

Assistant Chief Storekeeper—Vacant. Scale C.1.2.3.

Chief Engineer—D. J. Stott. £1,200.

Senior Engineers—J. P. C. Bell; S. Grunberg. Scale A.

Assistant Engineers—S. D. M. Robertson; J. M. Brown, R. I. Crawford; A. R. Otoo. Scale A.

Chief Mechanical Engineer—H. A. Johnson. £1,200.

Senior Locomotive Superintendent—Vacant. Scale A.

Assistant Locomotive Superintendents—E. H. Spendlove, G. K. B. de Graff Johnson. Scale A.

Works Manager—A. T. G. Power. Scale A.

Assistant Works Managers—F. C. Steward; E. J. Hayward. Scale A.

Assistant Electrical Engineer—E. T. H. Wilkinson. Scale A.

Traffic Manager—G. W. Staig. £1,200.

Senior Traffic Superintendents—J. K. Dougan; S. A. Aston; J. A. Smith. Scale B.

Assistant Traffic Superintendents—R. S. Cunningham; S. Wright; A. M. Agbokpor; E. C. Scholar. Scale B.

Marine Superintendent—H. V. Briscoe. Scale B.

Fire Service Officer—E. C. Fowler. Scale C.1.2.3.

SOCIAL WELFARE AND HOUSING

Director of Social Welfare and Housing—E. N. Jones, O.B.E. £1,350.

Deputy Director of Social Welfare and Housing—W. A. S. Cole. £1,200.

Assistant to the Director of Social Welfare and Housing—W. S. Crane, T.D. Scale A.

Social Welfare

Principal Probation Officer—P. H. Hare. Scale C.2.3.

Principal of Industrial School—J. A. Hamilton. Scale C.2.3.

Housing

Senior Executive Engineer—A. T. Flutter. £1,100.

Executive Engineer, Grade II—Vacant. Scale A.

SURVEY DEPARTMENT

Director of Surveys—C. R. Petty. £1,200.

Deputy Director of Surveys—W. Harrison. £1,100.

Senior Surveyors—K. M. Vaughan, D.S.M.; E. D. Fort; T. W. Wignall.

Senior Instructor, Survey School—A. V. Lawes. Scale A.

Surveyors—A. E. W. Nesbitt, M.C.; G. G. Hanson; R. T. Russell, M.B.E.; T. C. Peattie. Scale A.

Cartographer—F. C. Blake. Scale C.2.3.

Chief Draughtsman—L. E. Gill. Scale C.3.

