NIGERIA
SITUATION AND AREA
The British colony and protectorate of Nigeria is situated on the north-eastern shore of that deep indentation in the western coast of the African continent known as the Gulf of Guinea, and is enclosed roughly by parallels of latitude 4° and 14° N. and by meridians of longitude 3° and 14° E.

It is bounded on the north and north-west by the military territories of the French Sudan, on the east and south-east by the Cameroons, on the south and south-west by the waters of the Gulf of Guinea, and on the west by the French colony of Dahomey. Its greatest length from east to west is 700 miles and greatest breadth from north to south 650 miles.

Great Britain has received a mandate over a small portion (amounting to 34,081 square miles) of the former German territory of the Cameroons, which portion has been placed, for purposes of administration, under the Nigerian Government.

The area of Nigeria, including the area of Cameroons under British mandate, is approximately 372,674 square miles (eastern and western provinces and colony 90,896 square miles, northern provinces 281,778 square miles).

CLIMATE
Except perhaps on the plateau the climate of Nigeria is not a healthy one for Europeans, and Nigeria shares with the rest of West Africa an unenviable reputation in this respect. The climate is influenced to a large extent by the interaction of two great wind currents, viz., the dry dust-laden Harmattan, which is a north-easterly wind off the Sahara, and the south-westerly monsoon. The seasons are as a rule well defined—the "dry season" characterised by the dry north-easterly Harmattan, and the "rainy season." The former begins in the north in October, extending its influence gradually southward until it is perceptible at Lagos early in November. There it appears intermittently up to the beginning of March, but in the north the dust and haze are more continuous and last until April. During this period the maximum diurnal variations of temperature occur. The wind blows generally from the north-east, and both diurnal variation...
and humidity vary with the severity of the Harmattan. Even in Lagos, where hourly observations are taken, during December and January the humidity has been known to fall to 28 per cent. This season is ushered in and out by short periods of tornadoes and, with a slight break in August in the southern provinces, the rainy season fills the remainder of the year. A prevailing southwest wind supplies on the coast a copious precipitation which decreases rapidly as it travels inland. At Bonny, on the coast, the rainfall recorded in 1923 was 150-99 inches, rain falling on 151 days; at Kaduna, in the middle of the country, 43-55 inches, rain falling on 112 days; while the lowest recorded was 25-05 inches at Sokoto, rain falling on 44 days.

**GENERAL DESCRIPTION**

Nigeria consists of the following four main zones or areas:

(1) An area of swamp and mangrove forest with almost impenetrable undergrowth, running parallel to the coast-line and varying in depth from 20 to 60 miles. This area, which includes the deltaic region of the River Niger, is covered by a network of creeks and traversed by numerous rivers, the most important of which are the Rivers Benin, Forcados (branch of the River Niger), Nun (branch of the River Niger), Sombreiro, Bonny, Imo, Kwa-Ibo and Cross.

(2) A belt of dense forest with thick undergrowth extending from the western to the eastern boundary and from 50 to 100 miles in width. The southern border of this area is some 20 miles from the coast-line in the west and thence follows the northern limit of the swamp and mangrove area. Its northern edge is difficult to determine exactly, as the belt gradually changes to patches of forest alternating with thick scrub and grass plains running approximately along a line drawn in a general east-south-easterly direction from about 7° 30' N. on the western border to 6° N. on the extreme east. The country is generally undulating with scattered hills, and an extensive view can seldom be obtained; there are, however, hills rising to over 3,000 feet, and the region becomes mountainous as the Cameroons frontier is approached. The zone is well watered by numerous rivers, which, with few exceptions, run from north to south, and contains extremely rich oil-palm areas. There are no open spaces, except around villages and clearings for farms.

(3) A zone of comparatively open country gradually developing into park-like land and thence into open expanses covered with high grass as the watershed of the River Benue and that of the Niger (above its confluence with the Benue) are neared. The zone is generally hilly and mountainous on the Cameroons frontier, where heights above 6,000 feet are to be found.

(4) A plateau occupying the greater portion of Nigeria north of the Rivers Niger and Benue. East of longitude 7° the southern limits of this plateau are determined by a zone of hills which succeeds the undulating grass country to the south. The features of the plateau are generally similar, and although many rivers take their rise in this tableland, it is broken to no great extent by their valleys, except in the cases of those of the Rivers Niger and Benue on the south and west. In elevation it does not exceed an altitude of much over 2,000 feet, except in the mountainous parts of Bauchi, where heights of 6,000 feet and more occur, and in the south-west of Yola, which is occupied by a part of the Cameroons mountain system. The surface is generally undulating, marked here and there by hills of granite and sandstone, which rise abruptly from the surrounding land. The country is clothed to a large extent with thin forests which become more and more scanty as the Western Sudan is entered and the arid "steppes" of the Sahara Desert are approached.

**POPULATION**

Nigeria is divided among a great number of tribes. The origin and ethnological classification are obscure, but they may be divided into two main groups; the people of the north, who are organised in a number of Moslem states, and some Moslem nomads and a number of smaller unassimilated tribes; and the less highly organised tribes of the coast and forest regions.

The total population of Nigeria at the time of the last census in 1931 was estimated at 19,928,171 including 778,352 in the Cameroons under British mandate. This population was distributed as follows:

|                | Total. | Africans. | Non-Africans. |
|----------------|--------|-----------|---------------|
| Northern Provinces | 11,434,924 | 11,433,099 | 1,825         |
| Southern Provinces | 8,493,247 | 8,489,630 | 3,617         |
| Nigeria          | 19,928,171 | 19,922,729 | 5,442         |

Nearly 2,500 of the non-native male population were in Government service, leaving, after exclusion of 1,066 females, slightly less than 2,000 European and Syrian males, mostly engaged in commerce.

The division of the African population among the principal tribal groups is as follows:

| Tribe       | Per cent. | Tribe     | Per cent. |
|-------------|-----------|-----------|-----------|
| Fulani      | 10        | Kanuri    | 5         |
| Hausas      | 18        | Munshi    | 3         |
| Ibibio      | 4         | Yoruba    | 16        |
| Ibo         | 16        | Other     | 28        |

Hausas and Fulani together form 50 per cent. of the population of the Northern, and Ibos and Yorubas together 70 per cent. of the population of the Southern Provinces.

The African population of the five largest towns is:

| Town       | Population |
|------------|------------|
| Ibadan     | 387,133    |
| Lagos      | 126,108    |
| Kano       | 89,162     |
| Ogbomosho  | 86,744     |
| Iwo        | 57,191     |

The total population of Nigeria and the Cameroons under United Kingdom Trusteeship in 1947 was estimated at 23,000,000 (Nigeria, 22,000,000; Cameroons 1,000,000); but the true figure was probably in the region of 25,000,000.

**RELIGION**

In the Northern Provinces the bulk of the population is Muhammadan and the remainder, consisting chiefly of those tribes that have resisted the onset of Muslim invaders are termed in contradistinction pagans. Their religion corresponds to that of most other African tribes in their natural state and consists of a belief in a Supreme Being combined with forms of animism and ancestor worship. With this goes a belief in witchcraft and magic which varies in intensity, the fear
of witchcraft being much greater in some tribes than in others. In the Southern Provinces the bulk of the population can still be termed pagans though Christianity is widespread among the educated and semi-educated classes. There are also large numbers of Muhammadans in the Yoruba towns.

Missionaries have been at work (in the Southern Provinces and Colony at least) for a great number of years, and many of the ancient treaties contained clauses by which the chiefs were bound to encourage and protect the Christian missions. The chief denominations established in Nigeria are the Church of England (Church Missionary Society), Roman Catholic, Methodist, Presbyterian and Baptist. There is also a Native African Church, modelled on the Church of England, but allowing polygamy among its members. There is a Church of England Bishop of Lagos assisted by three Assistant Bishops, and a Diocese of the Niger with a Bishop and two Assistant Bishops. The Diocesan Synod of Western Equatorial Africa was incorporated within Nigeria by Ordinance No. 53 of 1917, but this ordinance was repealed by the Lagos Diocesan Synod Ordinance, 1923, which incorporated the Diocesan Synod of Lagos. There are five Roman Catholic vicariates with Bishops resident at Lagos, Asaba, Buea, Ondo and Onitsha respectively, also four Prefectures in charge of Prefects Apostolic resident at Kaduna, Jos, Calabar and Ogwoja.

**History**

As far back as the 17th century British traders have had mercantile depôts on the mouths of the Niger and adjacent rivers and creeks, known as the oil rivers, and in those early times the trade was mainly confined to the traffic in slaves. At this epoch the French attempted a settlement at the mouth of the Niger, but were unsuccessful and during the 18th century British interests preponderated.

At the beginning of the 19th century the exploration of the upper river, which had hitherto been supposed to be identical with the Nile or Congo, began, and Mungo Park traced its course from Bamako to Bussa, where he lost his life in the rapids. Lander in 1830 demonstrated the identity of Mungo Park's river at Bussa with the lower Niger, and followed its course to the sea.

In the next two decades, 1840–60, efforts were made, both by the British Government and private individuals, including French and German merchants, to develop the trade of the Niger, while our knowledge of the interior was greatly enlarged by the travels of Clapperton and Allen, both British, and of Barth and others, all at British instigation. A consulate was founded at Lokoja, and, at the cost of much money and many lives, some progress seemed to have been made, only to result in failure. The pioneer of these efforts was McGregor Laird, who in 1852 began to establish stations and to endeavour to secure the country for England, but the stations were destroyed by natives, or removed after Laird's death in 1861. The good results of his work were not, however, entirely lost.

The situation in the early seventies was that there were numerous trading firms—English, French and German—on the Oil rivers, where the export trade in palm oil had begun to assume importance, the imports being chiefly confined to spirits, guns and powder. The expeditions sent by the British Government to the higher river, and the subsidies voted by Parliament, had been withdrawn, and European intercourse with the Niger would have ceased had it not been for the perseverance of a few British firms, who, during the four months of high water, each sent a trading steamer up the river, and soon established a few primitive stations, where the white population of Nigeria lived. These bold pioneers were at the mercy of powerful chiefs, and gross outrages were from time to time avenged by the despatch of a light draught gunboat.

At the close of 1877, Mr. Goldie-Taubman—afterwards Sir George Goldie—visited the Niger and recognised that amalgamation of interests and a settled government must replace the chaotic rivalry of traders. With this object in view he determined to secure a charter for a British company. After much negotiation the small British interests, which were the only ones existent on the Niger at that date, were amalgamated in the United African Company in 1879, and in 1881 a charter was applied for. The objection was raised that the capital of the company was too small, and hence the National African Company was formed with a capital of a million sterling, with the object of opening up direct relations with the great chiefs of the interior.

With great energy the new company founded stations, sent out a river flotilla, and pushed up the Niger and Benue, but meanwhile the foresight of Gambetta had prompted the establishment of two French companies, which, being backed by the French Government, acquired a great influence on the lower Niger. Of these the Compagnie du Sénégal had a capital of £600,000, and some 30 French stations were formed, and while the French flag remained the charter could not, of course, be granted. The energy of Sir George Goldie, however, secured the disappearance of the French flag just in time to announce at the Berlin Conference in 1885 that the British flag alone flew on the Niger, and to secure to Great Britain the guardianship of the international navigation rights on the Niger while the French companies and rival British interests which had meantime grown up were absorbed in the National African Company.

In April, 1885, a new danger arose from the mission of Herr Flegel to secure treaties with Sokoto and Gwandu on behalf of Germany, but he was anticipated by the British company, who concluded treaties with those powerful emirs. Great Britain was, therefore, able to conclude the agreement of 1886 with Germany, which settled the frontiers between Nigeria and the Cameroons as far north as Yola, and in July, 1886, the long-delayed charter was granted, and the company changed its title to that of the Royal Niger Company. Meanwhile, the territories adjacent to the river had been placed under British protection.

The first decade was spent in founding a number of commercial and quasi-administrative stations on the Niger and Benue Rivers, and in making treaties with the native tribes, and consolidating the commercial organisation on which the company was dependent for its revenue. The expeditions of Monteil to Lake Chad from the west, of Crampnel from the south-east, and of Mizon by way of the Niger and Benue, were checkmated, and finally, in 1890, an agreement was arrived at with France by which the line dividing the French Sudan on the north from Nigeria was drawn with certain deflections from Say, on the
Niger, to Barua, on Lake Chad, and in 1893 the Cameroons boundary was extended from Yola to the south of the same lake.

In 1897 the growing hostility of the great Fulani Power culminated in a plan to drive the white men out of the country. The company were not unprepared, and they took the field with some 500 or 600 soldiers, led by about 30 British officers, against many thousands of the enemy, of whom a large proportion were mounted. Nupe, a dependency of Sokoto, which had thus challenged the company's existence, was divided by the Niger into two nearly equal portions. The southern portion was first conquered, and then northern Nupe after a two days' fight before the capital at Bida. Ilorin, a smaller dependency, was next subdued. Prior to this southern Nupe had been partially cleared of the Fulani slave raiders, and on 20th June, 1897, the legal status of slavery in the Niger territories was declared abolished by the company.

Simultaneously with this crisis another, which was to have far-reaching effects arose. The only indeterminate frontier remaining was that to the west. The company perceiving, in 1894, that French enterprise contemplated the annexation to Senegal and Dahomey of the Borgu country, sent out Captain Lugard (later Lord Lugard) to negotiate treaties with the king or chiefs of that country. Anticipating the powerful French expeditions by only a few days, he succeeded in making treaties at the capital of Nikki, and with other semi-independent chiefs of districts. Disregarding these prior British treaties, a swarm of French expeditions spread over Borgu, and having obtained a pledge from our Government that Sir George Goldie's powerful expedition, then in the field against the Fulani, should not advance north of latitude 9°, they invaded Bussa, with which we had a specific treaty of many years standing, and established themselves on the Niger at several points.

At the end of 1897, in view of this situation, the British Government decided to raise an Imperial local force, and the task was confided to Colonel Lugard, who left England in March, 1898. After a period of great tension, during which the British and French troops faced each other, and a conflict was daily imminent, a convention was signed laying down a boundary line from the intersection of the 9th parallel with the frontier of Dahomey to Illo on the Niger, and thence to the northern frontier, which was more accurately defined, to Lake Chad, and to its junction with the Cameroons frontier. Meanwhile, the Emir installed at Bida by the company was ousted, and the Nupes were again in arms, while the army of Rabeh, which had penetrated from the Nile Valley to Lake Chad, conquered and laid waste the territory of Bornu, but eventually returned to the south of Lake Chad.

The Imperial force, called the West African Frontier Force, with a "Commissioner and Commandant" at its head, and independent of the Company, was rapidly being formed, with its headquarters at Jebba, and with numerous detachments holding the posts evacuated by the French throughout Borgu, and a strong garrison at Lokoja.

The Imperial Government having decided that the charter of the Royal Niger Company should be revoked, and that its administrative rights and powers should be transferred to the Crown, steps to this end were taken at the end of 1898, when the convention with the French Government had been signed. The actual transfer of the Company's rights and possessions to the Crown took place on the 1st of January, 1900, when the territories north of a line extending, with deflections, from approximately latitude 9° on the Dahomey frontier to Idah on the River Niger, thence to Takum on the Cameroons border, were formed into the protectorate of Northern Nigeria under Colonel Lugard as High Commissioner.

During the first years of the protectorate of Northern Nigeria, the Government was engaged in bringing under control the powerful Emirates of the Hausa States and the Kanuri Kingdom of Bornu. These Emirs, who maintained large standing armies, a large proportion of which was mounted, annually took the field and devastated vast tracts of country in slave-raiding expeditions. Despite the treaty with Sokoto, under which the Royal Niger Company paid him an annual subsidy, the Fulani Emirates now defied the Government. The Emirs of Nupe and Kontagora were brought under control in 1901; Yola, Bauchi and Bornu in 1902; and the work of pacification was practically completed in 1903 with the taking of Kano and Sokoto, and the action at Birmi. Since that date the Hausa States have maintained a record of peaceful progress, with the exception of a rising by a so-called "Mahdi" in 1906 at Satiru in the Sokoto province, which was, however, quickly suppressed with the loyal assistance of the Emir of Sokoto. The minor Emirate of Hadejia in the extreme north, which had not previously been brought under control, assumed an aggressive attitude in 1906 which, however, was suppressed. It was necessary also to send minor expeditions against various unruly and truculent pagan tribes, of which the more important were the Munshis on both banks of the Benue, the Okpotos in the Bassa (now part of Kabba) province, and various hill-tribes in the Bauchi and Nassarawa (now divided between Plateau and Benue) provinces.

In addition to the pacification of these vast areas—hitherto largely unexplored—the early years of the protectorate were devoted to creating a civil government in all its departments, and to the housing of the civil and military officials, and the erection of public offices; the building of the first light railway from Barijuko (on the navigable Kaduna) to Zungeru (22 miles), to which place the seat of Government was transferred in 1902 from the temporary capital at Jebba; and the opening up of communications both by land and by the navigable waterways of the Niger, Benue, Kaduna and Gongola Rivers. In 1907 the construction of the main trunk line from the navigable Niger at Baro to Kano (356 miles), the great market of the Hausa States, was commenced and completed, as a pioneer line, in 1912. During the 14 years from the inception of the Government of Northern Nigeria on 1st January, 1900, to its amalgamation with Southern Nigeria on 1st January, 1914, there were constructed in the protectorate 700 miles of railways and 5,500 wire miles of telegraphs, while the Marine Department worked 1,000 miles of river.

In the political and administrative sphere a complete civil service was created, which increased from half a dozen officers in 1900 to an establishment of 132 residents and assistants in 1913. The guiding principle of the Administration was indirect rule through the native chiefs, the powers delegated to whom varied with their degree of enlightenment. A form of direct taxation was evolved, based on the, elaborate system which
obtained in the Hausa States prior to the British occupation, but shorn of its abuses. The collection of these taxes was made through the chiefs, a fixed proportion of them being retained in "Native Treasuries," from which the salaries of the native officials were paid.

As an indication of the progress achieved, the Durbar held at Kano on 1st January, 1913, may be instanced, when practically all the chiefs of the Protectorate—from the great Mohammedan Emirs to the petty chiefs of pagan hill tribes—assembled with such retinues as they were allowed to bring, estimated at 20,000 horsemen and 40,000 foot.

The Oil Rivers Protectorate.—When, in 1885, the British Government at the conference of the European powers, held at Berlin, was able to obtain acknowledgment of the fact that a British protectorate had been virtually established over the Niger districts, an Order in Council defining them was made, and the portion lying on the coast line was designated the Oil Rivers Protectorate, and placed under Consular rule.

In 1891 the rule of the Consul over the Oil Rivers Protectorate was exchanged for that of a Commissioner and Consul-General, stationed at Old Calabar (now Calabar), while Deputy Commissioner and Vice-Consuls were appointed to the Rivers Benin, Bonny, Brass and Forcados, and to the districts of Sapele and Warri.

By an Order in Council of 1893 the Oil Rivers Protectorate was extended definitely into the hinterland under the name of the Niger Coast Protectorate, and an administration established under an Imperial Commissioner and Consul-General.

Benin.—In 1892 Captain Gallwey (now Sir H. L. Galway) concluded a treaty with the king of Benin. As time passed, however, it became evident that this potentate had no intention of adhering to its provisions.

At this period Benin held enormous power over the surrounding territory, and it was said that her influence extended even so far as Sierra Leone on one side and the Congo River on the other. The terrible nature of the fetish rites and the wholesale human sacrifices, which took place in Benin City, urgently demanded European intervention and the introduction of civilised rule.

Early in 1897 a peaceful mission, organised by the Acting Consul-General to establish friendly relations with Overami, the King of Benin, and to induce him to carry out the terms of the treaty of 1892, was treacherously attacked, and with the exception of two, all the European members of the party were massacred. A powerful expedition was sent against Benin, and in a short time the capital had been captured, but the King made good his escape. The state in which Benin City was found passes all description. In every direction human remains, pits filled with bodies in various stages of decomposition, and altars dripping with fresh human blood were to be seen.

Overami eventually surrendered and was sent into exile at Calabar, where he died in the early part of 1914. In 1899 there was a second expedition into the Benin country, which resulted in the capture and execution of Ologboshere, the leader of the attack on the mission.

The Protectorate of Southern Nigeria, 1900–1906. When in 1900 the charter of the Royal Niger Company was revoked by the Crown, that portion of its territories lying between Idah and the coast was added to the Niger Coast Protectorate. At the same time by an Order-in-Council the Niger Coast Protectorate was constituted the Protectorate of Southern Nigeria, the administration being transferred from the Foreign Office to the Colonial Office, and placed under Sir R. Moor as High Commissioner. In 1901 the Niger Coast Protectorate troops were organised into a regiment of the West African Frontier Force, and remodelled on the lines of the original corps of that name raised in the Niger Company's territories by Colonel F. D. Lugard in 1898.

Towards the close of 1901 preparations for the Aro expedition were commenced. These operations were directed against the southern Ibo people in general and the Aro, or Inokun tribe in particular. The Aros, who may be described as the dominant section of the great Ibo family, held paramount power over a large extent of country lying between the Niger and Cross Rivers. They had established a powerful fetish, probably derived from Benin, known as the Long Juju, which exercised an extremely evil influence on the ignorant and superstitious natives for miles around. After five months of arduous work, the Frontier Force accomplished the subjugation and disarmament of the Aro tribe, the destruction of the Long Juju and the bringing under Government control of that portion of the territories as far north as about the 5th parallel.

Between 1905 and 1909 several expeditions were sent into the hinterland with the object of opening to trade and civilisation previously unexplored tracts of country. The principal operations were the Bende-Onitsha Hinterland Expedition, 1905–06, and the Niger-Cross River Expedition, 1908–09. As the troops progressed through the country new administrative districts and stations were formed, broad roads constructed in all directions, and many new markets established.

The eastern frontier from the Cross River rapids to the sea was surveyed by an Anglo-German Commission in 1905–06; and from Cross River rapids to Yola in 1907–09. For some years before these delimitations, there were frequent raids across the border by German native soldiery from the Cameroons, which were invariably accompanied by robbery with violence and seizure; and even after the boundary line had been demarcated this violation of British territory did not cease.

Lagos or Eko.—During the reign of Kosoko, Lagos, or Eko as it is known to the natives, became the chief centre of the slave trade in the Bight of Benin. Akitoye, his cousin, from whom the throne had been usurped, issued a proclamation to the effect that he would make common cause with the British against slavery if he were reinstated. Acting on this statement, the British Government took decisive measures, and in 1851 a party of bluejackets from Her Majesty's warships attacked and reduced the town. Kosoko fled and Akitoye was restored to power. In 1852 Akitoye and his chiefs signed a treaty by the terms of which they agreed to abolish the export of slaves, and to encourage the work of missionaries and the establishment of stations for them. A consul was appointed to Lagos for the protection of British interests.

About nine months after the signature of this treaty some Portuguese slave traders, who had been expelled, returned to Lagos and renewed their old practices. Akitoye was informed of what was going on, and their attempts were promptly suppressed. In consequence of this, the slave
trade party, under the leadership of Kosoko, organised a rebellion which broke out in 1853. Indecisive encounters took place between the two factions, and bluejackets were landed to protect the consulate. Attempts which were made by the consul and officers to mediate failed, and finally marines were sent to assist Akitoye, when, after a short fight, Kosoko was defeated and fled. Dossumu, who succeeded his father Akitoye, was unable to adhere to the terms of the treaty, and was induced in 1861 to cede the sovereignty of Lagos and dependent territories to the Crown in consideration of a pension, which he continued to draw until his death in 1885.

The Colony of Lagos.—In 1862 these territories were erected into a colony, and the following year Kosoko, who in 1854 had been acknowledged king of Lekki and Palma, districts lying to the eastward, ceded these places to the Lagos Government. At the same time protectorate rights were established over Ado and Oke-Odan on the west. In 1866 the colony became a portion of the West African Settlements, retaining a separate Legislative Council, but being subject to the Governor-in-Chief at Sierra Leone. In 1874 the colony, which extended from Badagri on the west to Odi on the east with an indefinite inland boundary, was united to the Gold Coast Colony.

In 1883 Appa, lying on the western border of the colony, was the next district to be brought under British jurisdiction. In 1884, the British Consul concluded a treaty with the Jekris by which their country as far as Mollume was placed under British protection, and similar treaties were made with the chiefs of Ogbo and Mahin, small tribal areas situated in the creek region to the eastward. In 1886 the Lagos territories were separated from the Gold Coast and erected into a separate colony and protectorate. Between the years 1886 and 1895 Mahin, Ijebu-Ro, Itebu and Aiyesan to the east, and Kotonu, Igbessa, Ado and Ilaro to the west were proclaimed part of the protectorate. An expedition was sent against the Ijebus in 1892, which resulted in the military occupation of their country, and in the opening of a most important trade route to the interior.

From this time onward British influence gradually spread inland towards the Niger, and in 1899 the protectorate was extended to the confines of Northern Nigeria and to the border of the Niger Coast Protectorate. The country generally prospered, and Lagos became a great trading port with many large mercantile firms, both European and native, established. Great trade routes were opened into the interior, and a railway was constructed from Lagos to Ibadan, passing through a thickly populated and fertile agricultural country.

The Colony and Protectorate of Southern Nigeria, 1906-1913.—In 1906 the colony of Lagos and its protected territory were amalgamated with the protectorate of Southern Nigeria under one administration and designated the Colony and Protectorate of Southern Nigeria. For administrative purposes the country was partitioned into three main divisions—the Western Province, which coincided with the former Colony and Protectorate of Lagos; and the Central and Eastern Provinces, which previously formed the Protectorate of Southern Nigeria.

The next few years were spent in building up an extensive system of communications. The railway from Lagos to Ibadan was extended over the Northern Nigeria border to Jebba; thence across the Niger to Zungeru; and finally linked up with the railway in operation from Baro on the Niger to Kano, the great Mohammedan trade centre of the north. A light railway was built joining the main line at Zaria with the tin fields of Bauchi. Broad main roads were driven in all directions and telegraph lines constructed between important administrative and trade centres.

In 1901 the great undertaking of making Lagos an open port by the construction of huge moles and by the dredging of the sandbar, which obstructed the entrance to the harbour, was commenced; and by the end of 1913 sufficient progress had been made to permit of large ocean-going steamers entering the harbour and berthing alongside the wharves. For several years vessels drawing 25 feet of water have been able to use the harbour.

Large areas in the north-eastern portion of the protectorate, notably the country inhabited by the warlike and hitherto intractable Munshi people, were brought under Government supervision.

The Amalgamation of Northern and Southern Nigeria, 1914.—By Letters Patent of 29th November, 1913, and an Order-in-Council dated 22nd November, 1913, which instruments came into operation on 1st January, 1914, the Colony and Protectorate of Southern Nigeria and the Protectorate of Northern Nigeria were formed into the Colony and Protectorate of Nigeria. By another order of the same date the boundaries of the colony of Nigeria were defined, and by a third order, which applied to the colony and to the protectorate, an advisory and deliberative body known as the Nigerian Council was established.

Provision was made for an Executive Council and for a Legislative Council for the colony. The legislative power for the protectorate was vested in the Governor. The colony was placed under an Administrator, and the protectorate, divided into two groups of provinces—Northern and Southern—under two Lieutenant-Governors.

Since the amalgamation, the chief events in the history of Nigeria between the Great War (1914-18), which resulted in the conquest of the Cameroons, and the 1939-45 War, in which Nigerian troops fought with distinction both in East Africa and in Burma have been the institution in 1923 of an enlarged and partly elected Legislative Council for the Colony and Southern Provinces of the Protectorate, replaced in 1947 by a broader constitution comprising a Legislative Council which legislates for the whole of Nigeria, and three Regional Houses of Assembly and a House of Chiefs (see under "Constitution"); the building of the Eastern Railway, and the development of the ports of Lagos and Port Harcourt and of the Government Colliery at Enugu; the two great trade booms and the depressions which succeeded them; the introduction of direct taxation in the Southern Provinces; and the establishment of air communications both within Nigeria and with the outside world.

The Cameroons.—The conquest of the Cameroons was completed in February, 1916, after a series of operations which commenced in August, 1914.

An Anglo-French military and naval force under the command of Brigadier-General C. Dobell (afterwards Major-General Sir C. Dobell), the Inspector General of the West African Frontier Force, compelled Duala to surrender on 27th September, 1914, and after hard fighting drove the German forces from the surrounding districts.
On 10th June, 1915, Garua, on the River Benue, fell after a siege of a few weeks by forces from Nigeria and the French Chad Territory under the command of Brigadier-General Cunliffe, the Commandant of the Nigeria Regiment, R.W.A.F.F.; having cleared the north of the Cameroons, except Mora, these forces marched southwards driving the Germans before them to the Sanaga River.

French forces, with a Belgian contingent from the Congo, invaded the Cameroons from French Equatorial Africa under the command of General Aymerich and gradually pushed forward from the south-east and south towards Yaunde, which had become the headquarters of the German forces. Finally the main German forces, being almost surrounded by the converging advance of the Allied troops, retreated southwards into the Spanish territory of Muni, where they were interned, and the isolated garrison of Mora in the north then surrendered.

By an arrangement which came into effect on 1st April, 1916, the Cameroons was provisionally divided into British and French spheres. The British sphere (about 31,150 square miles in extent) consisted of two portions. The smaller, in the extreme north was intended to include the whole of the Sultanate of Dikwa or German Bornu. The larger consisted of a strip of country bordering on Nigeria, about 400 miles in length and with a maximum width of 80 miles, extending from about 30 miles south of Yola to the Cameroon estuary. It included Buea, the German administrative capital of the Cameroons, and the ports of Victoria, Tiko, and Rio del Rey, and consisted of nearly the whole of the Victoria District, the Kumba (or Johann Albrechtshöhe) District, the Ossidinge District, part of the Chang District, the Bamenda District, and parts of the Banyo and Garua Districts.

The population of the British sphere at the last census in 1931 was 778,352.

The rest of the Cameroons, about 275,000 square miles, with Duala and Kribi, the chief ports, was assigned to France. Boundary adjustments with the French took place in 1920 in accordance with an agreement signed by Lord Milner and M. Simon on 10th July, 1919. The principal features of these were the transfer to the British of the country west of the Mandara mountains from the Dikwa Sultanate in the north to the River Tiel in the south, and the transfer of nearly all the Chang District to the French.

The British sphere was placed under the control of the Governor of Nigeria, and the parts of the sphere to the north of the Bamenda District were administered by the staffs of the adjoining Nigerian provinces of Bornu and Yola. The Bamenda, Ossidinge, Kumba and Victoria districts were administered as a separate Cameroons province with four divisions (Bamenda, Mamfe, Victoria, Kumba) under a resident stationed at Buea, responsible to the Governor of Nigeria through the Lieutenant-Governor of the Southern Provinces. The large German cocoa, rubber and banana plantations in the Victoria district, with about 48,000 acres under cultivation, were placed in the charge of a plantation department, in order that they might be kept in good order as far as possible until their mode of disposal was settled. They were sold by auction in November, 1924.

By the Treaty of Versailles, Germany renounced in favour of the Principal Allied and Associated Powers all her rights over the Cameroons.

In December, 1920, the British and French Governments submitted to the Council of the League of Nations draft mandates for the British and French spheres with a joint recommendation (dated 17th December, 1920) for the division of the Cameroons in accordance with the Milner-Simon agreement of 10th July, 1919. In October, 1921, the Council of the League approved in principle the division of the country in accordance with that agreement and the application of the mandate system to those territories, and on 20th July, 1922, after a delay due to negotiations between the United States Government and the Mandatory Powers, the Council confirmed the mandates and defined their terms*.

By an Order in Council, dated 1923 and brought into force in February, 1924, and by Nigerian Ordinance No. 3 of 1924, provision was made for the future government of the British sphere as if it were part of the Protectorate of Nigeria. Under these enactments, the Cameroons Province is administered and legislated for as if it formed one of the southern provinces of the protectorate, while the northern parts are administered and legislated for as if they formed parts of the northern provinces of Bornu and Yola; and most of the laws of Nigeria are applied to the British sphere, subject to the terms of the mandate as regards the few provisions thereof which are not in accordance with ordinary Nigerian law and practice.

In January, 1946, H.M. Government announced to the first session of the General Assembly of the United Nations their intention of placing the Cameroons under the international trusteeship system established by the United Nations Charter, and on the 14th December, 1946, the General Assembly approved a Trusteeship Agreement for the Cameroons.

**CONSTITUTION**

The territorial divisions of Nigeria are the Colony of Nigeria and the Protectorate, the latter being divided into three Regions, namely, the "Northern Provinces", the "Eastern Provinces" and the "Western Provinces". The territory of the Cameroons is administered as an integral part of Nigeria in accordance with a Trusteeship Agreement dated the 14th of December, 1946. The northern portion is administered as part of the Northern Provinces, while the southern portion constitutes one of the six Eastern Provinces.

A new constitution replacing that of 1922 came into being on the 1st of January, 1947. The government of the Colony is now provided for by Letters Patent of 2nd August, 1946, and that of the Protectorate and the Cameroons by the Nigeria (Protectorate and Cameroons) Order in Council, 1946, of the same date. The Royal Instructions of 2nd August, 1946, also make provision for the government of both the Colony and the Protectorate (including the Cameroons).

These constitutional instruments provide for an Executive Council consisting of the Chief Secretary to the Government, the three Chief Commissioners, the Attorney-General, the Financial Secretary, the Director of Medical Services, the Director of Education (ex-officio), and such Appointed Members as may be appointed by Royal Warrant or Instructions, or by the Governor on Instructions received through the Secretary of State.

* For text of the British mandate see Cmd. 1794.
Provision for the constitution and powers of a Legislative Council for Nigeria, including the Colony, the Protectorate and the Cameroons, is made by the Nigeria (Legislative Council) Order in Council, 1946, which also provides for the establishment and functions of a House of Chiefs and a House of Assembly for the Northern Provinces (which together form the Northern Regional Council) and Houses of Assembly for the Western and Eastern Provinces.

The Legislative Council consists of:

- The Governor, as President.
- Thirteen ex-officio Members, viz., the ex-officio Members of the Executive Council, the Development Secretary, the Director of Agriculture, the Director of Public Works, the Commissioner of Labour, and the Commissioner of the Colony.
- Three Nominated Official Members, being three Residents, one from each Region, appointed by the Governor for each meeting of the Council.
- Twenty-four Nominated Unofficial Members, viz., four Members appointed by and from the House of Chiefs; five members appointed by and from the Northern House of Assembly; two Members, being Chiefs, appointed by the Governor from the Western House of Assembly; four Members appointed by and from the Western House of Assembly; five Members appointed by and from the Eastern House of Assembly; and four Members appointed by the Governor, one representing the Colony, and three representing interests not otherwise adequately represented.
- Four elected Members; three elected by persons resident within the municipal area of Lagos, and one elected by persons resident within the municipal area of Calabar.

The qualifications for registration as a voter in Lagos or Calabar are that the voter must be a male person who (a) is a British subject or British Protected person of the age of 21 years or upwards; (b) has been ordinarily resident in the municipal area for the year immediately preceding the 1st October in the year of registration; and (c) was, during the aforesaid period, in receipt of a gross annual income from all sources of not less than £50.

The House of Chiefs is presided over by the Chief Commissioner, Northern Provinces, and consists of all first class Chiefs and not less than ten Members selected from among their own number by second class Chiefs of the Northern Provinces.

The Northern House of Assembly consists of 19 official members and not less than 20 nor more than 24 Unofficial Members. The Official Members are the Senior Resident of the Northern Provinces (President), 12 Residents (the Secretary, Northern Provinces being regarded as a Resident); the Secretary (Finance), Northern Provinces, the Regional Deputy Directors of Medical Services, Education, Agriculture and Public Works, and the Senior Crown Counsel, Northern Provinces. The Unofficial Members are six persons appointed by the Governor to represent interests not otherwise adequately represented, the remainder being Provincial Members selected by the Native Authorities in accordance with a procedure laid down in Directions issued by the Governor.

The Western House of Assembly consists of 14 Official Members and not less than 15, nor more than 19, Unofficial Members. The Official Members are the Chief Commissioner for the Western Provinces (President), seven Residents (the Secretary, Western Provinces, being regarded as a Resident), the Secretary (Finance), Western Provinces; the Regional Deputy Directors of Medical Services, Education, Agriculture and Public Works, and the Senior Crown Counsel, Western Provinces. The Unofficial Members are five persons appointed by the Governor to represent interests not otherwise adequately represented, the remainder being Provincial Members selected by the Native Authorities in accordance with a procedure laid down in Directions issued by the Governor.

The Eastern House of Assembly consists of 14 Official Members and not less than 15, nor more than 18, Unofficial Members. The Official Members are the Chief Commissioner for the Eastern Provinces (President), seven Residents (the Secretary, Eastern Provinces, being regarded as a Resident), the Secretary (Finance), Eastern Provinces, the Regional Deputy Directors of Medical Services, Education, Agriculture and Public Works, and the Senior Crown Counsel, Eastern Provinces. The Unofficial Members are five persons appointed by the Governor to represent interests not otherwise adequately represented, the remainder being Provincial Members selected by the Native Authorities in accordance with a procedure laid down in Directions issued by the Governor.

The House of Chiefs and the Houses of Assembly have no legislative powers. Their functions, in addition to appointing members to the Legislative Council, and such others as may be prescribed, are to consider and make recommendations with respect to the annual regional estimates, and to advise upon all Bills, before they are introduced into the Legislative Council, with the exception of Appropriation Bills and Bills which are in their terms inapplicable to the region concerned.

ADMINISTRATION

Nigeria is arranged in four main divisions, the Colony and three groups of provinces designated the Northern Provinces, the Western Provinces and the Eastern Provinces. The Colony comprises the former colony of Southern Nigeria, while the three groups of provinces are formed from the late protectorates of Northern and Southern Nigeria.

The Northern Provinces are Adamawa, Bauchi, Benue, Bornu, Ilorin, Kebba, Kano, Katsina, Niger, Plateau, Sokoto and Zaria.

The Western Provinces are Abeokuta, Benin, Ijebu, Oyo, Ondo and Warri.

The Eastern Provinces are Calabar, Cameroons, Ogoja, Onitsha, Owerri and Rivers.

The provinces are each partitioned into divisions.

The seat of government and the place of residence of the Governor is Lagos, which is also the headquarters of the Commissioner who administers the Colony. Each of the groups of provinces is administered by a Chief Commissioner, responsible to the Governor, with headquarters at Kaduna (Northern Provinces), Enugu (Eastern Provinces) and Ibadan (Western Provinces).

Each province is under the control of a Resident, who is assisted by a staff of district officers and assistant district officers who have charge
of the various divisions into which the province is divided. The residents and their assistants are responsible for the detailed administration of the country.

The colony is in the charge of a Commissioner assisted by a staff of district officers and assistant district officers.

Native Authorities.—In the early days of administration in the Northern Provinces the system known as "indirect rule" was set up. The effect of this system is that to-day the functions of government are for the most part carried out through native chiefs and councils with the assistance and advice of the British administrative staff. The native authorities are responsible, through the administrative staff, to the Government for the peace and good order of their respective areas. Certain essential services are also undertaken by the native authorities and are maintained and paid for out of the revenue obtained from a share of the taxes collected by them, the whole of the native court receipts, and various minor fees. The revenue of each native treasury is shown in annual estimates, together with the expenditure for the year, drawn up with the advice of the administrative staff and approved by the Governor, but not subject to the control of the Legislative Council.

Between 1919 and 1928 the system of indirect rule was introduced generally into the Southern Provinces. These native authorities are gradually assuming, with increasing efficiency and confidence, a greater share of the responsibility for administration previously borne entirely by the Government.

SOCIAL SERVICES

Education

Owing to the impossibility of obtaining precise statistics during the war years, the figures given are approximate only.

Number of children in Nigeria of school age, i.e., between 7 and 14 years.

Number of children attending primary schools.

Thus approximately 22 per cent. of the children available receive a primary schooling. In addition some 8,750 children attend secondary schools. The University College at Ibadan opened in 1948 with 108 students.

The incidence of schools varies greatly between one part of the country and another. For instance, although the Northern Provinces contain more than one-half of the total population the percentage of children attending school is only about 3-5 per cent. Even in the Southern Provinces, where the schools are generally much more popular, the degree of popularity varies enormously. As schooling is not compulsory, the supply of educational facilities has broadly followed the popular demand. The proportion of girls to boys attending is about 1:4 for the whole country but this proportion, also, varies widely in different areas. The number of trained African teachers at work is 4,948; and the number of untrained African teachers 25,198. Institutions for the training of teachers, male and female, are owned and maintained by Government and by voluntary agencies.

Schools are owned and maintained by Government, by voluntary agencies, by native authorities, and by private individuals. The voluntary societies are mainly, though not exclusively, Christian missionary bodies. The number of educational institutions maintained directly by Government is relatively small. It comprises:

8 Secondary schools.
30 Primary schools.
9 Training institutions for teachers.

In the most northerly provinces of the country, where the population is generally Mohammedan, the majority of the schools are maintained by the native authorities. In other areas the chief educational agencies are the missionary societies and the native churches that have developed under their aegis. Voluntary Moslem societies play a small but increasing part. The number of schools owned by non-denominational African societies and by private individuals is growing.

All schools are subject to inspection by the Department of Education. The estimated expenditure by Government on education for the current financial year is £1,961,761, in addition to large amounts being expended on educational development projects. £1,250,000 of this sum is spent on grants to voluntary agencies and Native Authorities. The ordinary recurrent expenditure on education amounts to approximately 9 per cent. of the estimated revenue of the country. The native authorities also spend about £326,270. In addition a large but uncertain sum, much of which is raised from local sources, is spent by the voluntary agencies.

Technical Training

The Department has embarked on a scheme of technical education which has made considerable progress and a Technical Institute and two Trade Centres have been opened. The object of this scheme is to produce skilled and independent artisans of whom Nigeria is in great need.

Information Services

The Public Relations Department greatly extended its activities during the year 1947. Two thousand one hundred and eighty press releases were issued to local newspapers—an increase of more than 150 per cent. on the figure for 1946. Press conferences were held in Lagos every Saturday morning and were consistently well attended, as many as 36 journalists being present on one occasion. At a number of the conferences distinguished visitors to Nigeria were introduced to the press and at others Heads of Departments answered questions on specific points of government policy. Weekly "press facility visits" to government offices, workshops, etc., were also arranged.

The Department took the initiative in encouraging local journalists to form their own Press Club, which had a successful first year and is establishing a branch at Ibadan.

The "Nigerian Review", which is published weekly by the department, maintained its great popularity and by the end of the year its circulation exceeded 37,000. The demand for the paper is such that this figure could be doubled if sufficient newsprint were available. The shortage of newsprint continues to hold up plans for the publication of vernacular supplements to the "Review".

It was possible to increase the circulation of the monthly "Children's Own Paper" from 50,000 to 57,000 during the year, but here again shortage of newsprint hampers further expansion. The Editor received more than 12,000 letters from members of the "Sunray Club", which is
sponsored by the paper, and answered over 10,000 of them. There are "Sunrays" in more than 2,000 Nigerian schools.

The Distribution Section of the Department handled 44 tons of local printed matter during the year 1947, together with a considerable quantity of material received from overseas. There are now 131 public reading rooms in Nigeria—15 in the Colony, 36 in the Eastern Provinces, 40 in the Western Provinces and 40 in the Northern Provinces.

The Process Engraving Section produced 3,576 blocks during the year—1,020 more than in 1946. There was a big rise in revenue, reflecting an increased demand for blocks from Nigerian commercial firms and from the Governments of other West African Colonies.

The Cinema Section had four mobile vans in service during the year. One van was allocated to each of the regions and the fourth retained at headquarters for specialized work such as the "Swollen Shoot" campaign in the cocoa areas of the Western Provinces. Despite the fact that two of the vans, which have been in service for several years, were frequently in the workshops undergoing repairs, the fleet travelled a total of 17,000 miles and gave shows to 658,464 adults and 399,105 children. A great deal of useful audience research was done during the year.

The Section has a number of portable projectors, some of which are already loaned to the Provinces, while others, when the necessary generating equipment has been purchased, are to be carried in kit cars and used as mobile units in areas which, because of the absence of bridges suitable for heavy traffic, are virtually inaccessible to the vans.

The Section made a start with the production of its own 16-mm. films, its first efforts being a short entitled "It Pays to Take Care", which was made as a visual supplement to an Agricultural Department pamphlet on the grading of cocoa, and the opening film in a "magazine" series under the general title of "Nigerian Cine Review".

A Regional Public Relations Office was opened in Ibadan in April. The experiment was entirely successful and similar offices are to be established in Kaduna and Enugu. A Regional Public Relations Week held in Ibadan in January was attended by delegates from all parts of the Western Provinces who listened to talks by the Chief Commissioner and Officers of the more important Government Departments and visited places of interest in the city.

The department is responsible for broadcasting in Nigeria. All wire re-diffusion stations relay items from the B.B.C. overseas services, while the programme originating from the various studios includes news bulletins in the more important vernaculars, special scripts based on the press releases from Lagos and on material from the London Transcription Service, gramophone records of African music and songs and performances by local orchestras or choral societies.

**Health**

The provision of health facilities has been conditioned largely by considerations of finance and communications, and services vary in different parts of the country according to their state of advancement as measured by the willingness of the people to accept the benefits offered by modern medicine. A total of 83 Government and native administration hospitals provide some 4,906 beds, while mission institutions provide a further 2,864.

There are 179 Government medical officers, 81 mission doctors and 38 private practitioners. Attendances at Government and native administration African hospitals during 1946 totalled: in-patients, 116,429; out-patients (new cases), 1,002,244.

The Rockefeller Foundation with the cooperation of the Nigeria and other British Colonial Governments established a Yellow Fever Research Institute in 1943 at Lagos. The Institute while primarily engaged in research also undertakes the storage testing and distribution of yellow fever vaccine to various territories in West Africa. The Vaccine is supplied gratis by the Rockefeller Foundation. The Sleeping Sickness Service, in greater part financed from Colonial Development Funds carries on with the mass examination and treatment of the population for sleeping sickness. In 1946 70,658 persons were examined and 16,723 treated.

A beginning was made in the formation of a Field Unit Service, the ultimate aim being one unit per province for the mass survey and treatment of all epidemic and preventable diseases with measures to improve local sanitation and nutrition. The training of the first unit is being carried out by the sleeping sickness personnel.

A small but efficient laboratory service is maintained which, besides being responsible for routine pathological and bacteriological examinations, undertakes the preparation of various vaccines, including the production of smallpox vaccine in the form of lanolated sheep lymph on a scale large enough to export appreciable quantities to other colonies in the region; 2,316,720 doses were produced in 1946. Antirabic vaccine is also produced in quantities sufficient for internal use and export to other British West African colonies.

Medical and pharmacy schools are conducted in Lagos (Yaba), but a much larger scheme for training in medicine is envisaged and the training in pharmacy will also be extended as an essential part of the 10-year development programme now (1946) being inaugurated. Training of health inspectorate staff is carried out up to a standard set by the local branch of the Royal Sanitary Institute, while the training of subordinate hospital staff—nurses and midwives—is undertaken at various centres throughout the country. The educational standard of new entrants has been raised and admission will in future be through Preliminary Training Schools. A Nursing Council has been set up.

A widespread system of dispensaries has been developed throughout the country financed by native administrations, and these cater for the common ailments among the rural population providing treatment for malaria, yaws and other endemic disease of high incidence. During 1946 new cases seen at these dispensaries amounted to 1,755,261, with 6,230,926 total attendances.

The births and deaths of non-natives are compulsorily registrable throughout Nigeria, and compulsory registration of the local population under the Births, Deaths and Burials Ordinance, is in force in various townships.

A Nigeria Leprosy Service, as a branch of the Medical Services, has been founded with the aid of Colonial Development Funds and co-operation of the British Empire Leprosy Relief Association, consisting in the first place of taking over and extending the work of the Mission Institutions in the eastern part of the country where the incidence of the disease is highest, on a five-year experimental basis.
Further details concerning health facilities in the territory may be found in the annual reports of the Medical Department.

Labour

The first Labour Code was enacted in 1929 and a section of the Nigerian Secretariat was opened to deal with labour affairs. In 1942 the Labour Department came into existence as a separate Government Department. Its present activities include industrial relations, wages inspectorate, inquiries by labour advisory boards, factory inspection, trade testing, compilation of labour statistics and advice to trade unions. Labour Advisory Boards have made enquiries into the conditions and wages of the tailoring, printing and motoring trades as well as dock labour in Lagos. Orders in Council have been enacted following the recommendations of a further board which inquired into conditions and wages of tin miners on the Bauchi Plateau. Adult and juvenile employment exchanges were opened in Lagos in December 1943. Employment Exchanges were also opened in Benin in October 1946, Sapele in May 1947 and Jos in September 1948. A school leavers' registry was established in Enugu on the 1st of October, 1947. A juvenile advisory and after-care committee has been established in Lagos. Requests for departmental registration by the Public Works Department are being met. Regional headquarters are shortly to be established in the Northern, Western and Eastern Provinces and in the Colony of Lagos in order that the Chief Commissioners and the Commissioner of the Colony may avail themselves of the advice of Senior Labour Officers and experts on labour problems. The old Labour Ordinance of 1929 has been replaced by a more comprehensive Labour Code Ordinance embodying those International Labour Office Conventions which His Majesty's Government has agreed to observe in relation to the colonies. The new code came into operation in April 1946. One hundred and nine African trade unions had been registered under the Trade Unions Ordinance by the 31st of December, 1947. A Nigerian Trades Union Congress came into being in 1943. Schemes approved for the training and employment of ex-servicemen are supervised by the Commissioner of Labour. A scheme for recruitment of Nigerian labour for the Spanish territory of Fernando Po has been in operation since 1943. The department publishes a quarterly review containing statistics and articles of general interest concerning labour matters. Further information regarding labour services may be found in the annual report of the department.

Welfare

Organized social welfare work is confined to Lagos and Calabar, and important expansions in this field have occurred in both places. Some progress has been made in promoting community life by encouraging the building of village halls and reading rooms, and by associating non-official sections of the population with the preparation of local development plans. Every effort is being made to increase interest in village life with the purpose of encouraging the younger generation to remain in the country, instead of migrating to the towns, where so often they merely swell the ranks of the unemployed.

The struggle against the various social evils was greatly assisted by the coming into force of the Children and Young Persons' Ordinance, 1943, and by the opening of the first Juvenile Court of Nigeria. The former legislation granted to the Welfare Officers much-needed powers to deal with child prostitution and to prohibit the employment of children as hawkers, and under its authority intensive measures have been taken to combat this menace.

Juvenile Courts have now been set up in Lagos and Calabar, the first presided over by the Chief Registrar and the second by the Magistrate, sitting with panels of prominent local citizens as assessors. It is encouraging that the voluntary assessors should have come to feel considerable interest not only in the hearing of the cases but in the subsequent fortunes of the juveniles brought before them. Care has been taken to ensure whenever possible the presence of the parents or guardians before the court.

Remand Homes serving as places of detention for convicted boys and of remand for those awaiting trial in the Juvenile Court were established, one in the Colony and one in Calabar, and are run in accordance with rules made under the Children and Young Persons Ordinance, 1943. The committal of young offenders to prisons in those areas has virtually ceased.

Probation and Assistant Probation Officers have been appointed in both areas and have done valuable work. Figures show that, despite the novelty of the idea, contact between probation officers and probationers has been lost only in seven cases out of 82 in the Calabar area. Probation Officers and the Juvenile Court in Lagos have been assisted in their task by a voluntary Probationary Case Committee established after the English pattern.

Approved institutions have been established at Isheri in the Colony of Lagos and at Enugu. Progress has been made both in general education and in the instruction of the inmates in crafts that will stand them in good stead in later life. The Welfare Officers regard the after-care of these boys as being of special importance, and every effort is made to provide them with suitable employment after their discharge from school.

The Boys' Hostel, Bola Street, Lagos, was opened in October, 1947, to house waifs and strays temporarily. A team of welfare workers scours the streets one night every week and brings in any juveniles found sleeping out, who have no home in Lagos, and a special investigation Board meets once a week to consider the case of each boy. A full-time social worker obtains beforehand as much information about the boy as possible and in most cases is able to produce some relative or countryman who knows of the boy or his home. After considering each case the Board considers what form of action will be appropriate, repatriation being the one most commonly used.

The Girls' Hostel is organized on the same lines as the Boys' Hostel, and the number of girls and children admitted to the hostel during the course of 1947 was 629. It was found that interviewing each girl weekly speeded up disposal of her case and also encouraged better behaviour.

The introduction of Boys' Clubs to the large villages of the Colony proceeds apace. The practice of assuming direct responsibility for boys' clubs was revised when in its place was substituted a policy of grants-in-aid for clubs conforming to certain definite standards. The aim was to encourage the growth of clubs run by voluntary organizations rather than that the whole movement should depend upon the sole initiative and
munificence of government. Four clubs, three of which are village clubs, are being grant-aided. Two demonstration clubs are administered by the Social Welfare staff and negotiations are in progress for the opening of others. More serious attention is being given to the training of the boys in games, and a popular innovation was the art class which is attended regularly by fifteen boys, many of whom are already producing most expressive work. Three Girls' Clubs have also been opened in Lagos, and the members of the Welfare staff have taken a prominent part in the development of a new Community Centre established at Ebute Metta, some three miles from Lagos.

A Port Welfare Department was set up early in 1943 with the appointment of a Port Welfare Officer, under the general supervision of the Commissioner of the Colony. The duties of the Port Welfare Officer include the general welfare of seamen of all races, and he works in close cooperation with the various institutions, established all over the country for the benefit of seamen.

In addition to those enumerated above, the activities of the Social Welfare Service include the welfare of lepers, prostitutes and ex-prisoners, the maintenance of play centres for children, the teaching of handicrafts for female prisoners, the boarding out of unwanted children, the after-care of children from approved schools, the assistance of African students in the United Kingdom, the repatriation of indigent or undesirable foreigners, inquiries into the claims of servicemen for discharge on compassionate grounds, and a host of other duties.

Communications

Roads

The Government has already constructed a very large number of roads, most of which are suitable for motor traffic, and plans are in hand for further development. The roads are classified as follows:

Trunk roads A form the skeleton trunk road system on which the country is built up. This framework or skeleton consists of two main south and north roads, and four main lateral roads from west to east, the total mileage being 4,175 miles, with a considerable further mileage under construction but not yet opened to traffic.

Trunk roads B are roads connecting provincial or divisional capitals and other large towns with the skeleton trunk road system or with a port or the railway. A total of 3,382 miles have been constructed. There is a considerable further mileage at present under construction.

Local feeder roads or unclassified roads form the network of roads serving the areas between the trunk road system, and at present there are 18,388 miles of these roads and those under construction.

Eight hundred and two miles of all the roads are bituminous surfaced and the remaining 25,143 miles have gravel or earth surfaces.

Railways

The Nigerian railway, which is a Government system, comprises two main lines and several branches. The gauge of most of the track is 3 feet 6 inches. It has a total length, including branches, of 1,903 miles (including 133 miles of 2 feet 6 inches gauge.) Its equipment comprises 250 locomotives; 334 passenger train vehicles, including restaurant cars, and 3,180 freight vehicles, including brake vans.

The north-western main line of the railway runs from Lagos to N'guru, a distance of 843 miles. It passes through the important towns of Abeokuta, Ibadan (the headquarters of the Western Provinces), Ilorin, Jebba (where the line crosses the River Niger) Zungeru, Minna, Kaduna (the headquarters of the northern provinces), Zaria and Kano. Lagos is the terminal port; at Apapa, on the mainland side of Lagos harbour, there is a rail-served quay together with transit sheds. The terminus for local traffic is at Iddo, which is connected with the mainland and with Lagos Island by the Carter Bridge.

The principal export commodities carried on this section are ground nuts and cotton from the Northern Provinces, cocoa and oil palm products from south of Jebba; general imports and kola nuts form the principal items of north-bound traffic.

The eastern main line runs from Port Harcourt deepwater quay on the Bonny River northwards. It passes through a densely populated oil palm area en route to Enugu (the headquarters of the Eastern Provinces) where it serves the Government coal mines. The line crosses the Benue River at Makurdi and passes through Kafanchan Junction to join the north-western line at Kaduna, a distance of 569 miles from Port Harcourt. From Kafanchan, a connecting line runs to Jos, an important centre in connection with the tin mining industry. The tin mines are worked by private companies, and the tin is exported via Port Harcourt, as is coal.

There are four branch lines: Ifaw Junction to Idogo (27 miles); Minna to Baro, on the Niger River (111 miles); Zaria to Kaura Namoda (137 miles) and Zaria to Jos (133 miles of 2 feet 6 inches gauge track).

The railway operates road feeder services in the north, the equipment comprising 73 lorries and 26 trailers.

Waterways

The Rivers Niger and Benue are in themselves great natural water highways, and in the south, particularly in the Niger delta, there are numerous other navigable waterways, rivers and connecting creeks, which provide means of communication and transport. In parts of Southern Nigeria water transport is the only means of communication.

Shipping

Steamships maintain services between Nigeria and Europe, America, South Africa and the other West African colonies.

The two principal ports are Lagos and Port Harcourt. That of Lagos comprises Lagos Island and the mainland side of the harbour connected by the Carter Bridge. There is no rail connection to Lagos Island on which side of the harbour is a deep-water wharf and transit sheds for imports and numerous private jetties. On the mainland side of the harbour there is a modern deep-water quay at Apapa with rail and road connections, transit sheds and electric level-lifting cranes; also a wharf at which bulk-oil ships discharge to tanks ashore. The Apapa quay is capable of very
considerable extension as trade may require. There is a large dockyard at Apapa and vessels of tonnage up to 3,600 tons can be dry docked.

Port Harcourt lies some 40 miles up the Bonny River and comprises a deep-water quay and transit sheds capable of further extension, with rail and road connections. Port Harcourt is the port of export for Nigerian coal which is shipped by belt conveyor or across the quay.

The two principal inland river ports are Burutu on the Niger, and Warri on the Warri River. Both are served from the ocean via Forcados and Excavos River. There is also a river port at Baro, some 280 miles up the Niger, and one at Makurdi on the Benue.

Other coastal ports are Calabar and Victoria.

Air

Nigeria is well served by some 30 all-season airfields. Regular trunk route services are operated by BOAC, KLM, SABENA, Air France and Swissair, connecting South and West Africa with the capitals of Western Europe. Internal services in Nigeria are operated by the West African Airways Corporation, which, at present, operates services from Lagos to:

(a) Benin (6 times weekly in each direction)—Port Harcourt (5 times weekly in each direction)—Calabar (twice weekly in each direction)—Enugu (four times weekly in each direction)—Tiko (once weekly in each direction).

(b) Ibadan—Ilorin—Jos—Kano (twice weekly in each direction).

(c) Ibadan—Kaduna—Kano (twice weekly in each direction).

(d) Kano—Sokoto (twice weekly).

(e) Kano—Maiduguri and Yola (once weekly).

A twice-weekly service is also provided between Lagos and Dakar. All these routes are operated with "Dove" aircraft.

A Flight Information Centre is established at Kano, which disseminates information for aircraft and airfields in an area covering nearly a million square miles. Rescue Centres are established at Kano and Lagos to provide protection for the many air services operated across the territory.

Aircraft movements at Kano and Lagos average about 350 a month each, whilst at some ten others the average is 60-120.

HF/DF facilities are provided at Kano, Lagos, Jos, Maiduguri and Port Harcourt and HF airguards cover the movements of all aircraft. Many airfields are equipped with radio beacons and at Kano and Lagos blind approach beacon systems are installed.

A network of meteorological reporting stations exists, and regular forecasts and broadcast reports are made from Lagos and Kano.

Posts and Telegraphs

Nigeria is a member of the Universal Postal Union and contains 128 Post Offices and 389 postal agencies. Full information concerning postal and telegraphic facilities is given in the Nigeria Post Office Guide.

Mail steamers taking 13 days for the trip sail once every three weeks between the United Kingdom and Nigeria and an intermediate service is provided by less speedy cargo vessels. The air mail service to and from the United Kingdom operates via Kano and Tripoli on five days a week. The air postage rate for ordinary letter to the United Kingdom is 1s. per ½ oz. An air letter service to all countries in the Postal Union is in operation the charge being 6d. a letter. All main provincial centres are now linked by an Internal Air Mail service and all first-class mail is carried without surcharge at the rate of 1d. per ½ oz.

A system of inland telegraphs, owned and operated by Government, connects the majority of the principal towns throughout the country. This inland system includes wireless telegraphs and a rudimentary trunk telephone system, the latter in course of development. There are 64 telephone exchanges connected by trunk lines within the three main groups. There is also a wireless telegraph system, including direction-finders, owned and operated by Government for aviation services.

Cable and Wireless Limited owns and operates cable and wireless stations at Lagos whence telegraphic communication is maintained with all parts of the world through the Company's system, and with ships at sea.

Public Finance and Taxation

Revenue and Expenditure

Comparative Statements of Nigerian Revenue and Expenditure are published monthly in the Nigeria Gazette. In 1938-39 Revenue amounted to some six million pounds and Expenditure to some seven million pounds. The cost of public services has increased considerably in recent years and this has been met by increases in rates of direct and indirect taxation. Revenue and Expenditure during 1946-47 reached £14,041,000 and £13,210,000 respectively (excluding C.D. and W. grants and expenditure).

In 1946-47 Excise and Export Duties provided 51 per cent. of the Revenue, and Direct Taxes 18 per cent. Both these items showed increases throughout the war years. Interest, largely contributed by the Railway in respect of Capital Works Expenditure financed from Nigerian Loan and General Funds, provided 8 per cent. of the Revenue, the balance being made up of such items as licences, Mining Royalties, Fees of Court or Office and Earnings of Government Departments. A useful adjunct to Revenue was the Nigerian share of the profits of the West African Currency Board, amounting to £320,031 in 1946-47.

Public Debt

All Nigerian Loans, other than the local loan recently floated, are quoted on the London Stock Exchange. Those outstanding at 31st March, 1947, are listed in the following table:

| Amount outstanding | Description of Stock |
|--------------------|----------------------|
| £1,636,326         | Nigeria 6% Inscribed Stock 1949-79 |
| £4,263,373         |                     5% " " " 1950-60 |
| £4,188,000         |                     3% " " " 1955 |
| £5,700,000         |                     4% " " " 1963 |
| £300,000           |                     34% Registered " 1956-61 |
| £1,250,000         |                     22% " " " 1966-71 |
Early in 1947 the Nigeria 5 per cent. Loan (1947-57) of £4,250,000 reached maturity. It was decided to redeem this loan at the earliest opportunity in order to take advantage of the favourable conditions then obtaining on the London money market. £3 millions were accordingly redeemed, the remaining £1,250,000 being converted at the rate 99 with interest at 2½ per cent. redeemable in 1966-71. This conversion rate represents the cheapest Nigerian loan ever raised.

The annual charges for the service of the Public Debt on account of Interest and Statutory Sinking Funds in the year 1946-47 amounted to £1,397,410 roughly 12 per cent. of total ordinary expenditure.

Assets and Liabilities

The Balance Sheet of Nigeria as at 30th September, 1947, showed an excess of Assets over Liabilities of £7,488,384 and also a Reserve Fund of £1,500,000 and a Supplementary Sinking Fund of £1,580,517.

Direct Taxation

Two forms of direct taxation are in force: viz. income tax and general tax. The Income Tax Ordinance provides for non-natives throughout Nigeria, and natives in the Township of Lagos, to pay a graduated income tax; and for all companies to pay a flat rate. The rates in force during 1946-47 were the same as for 1945-46, viz.:

| Chargeable Income | Rate of Tax |
|-------------------|------------|
| For every pound of the first £200 | 0 0 4½ |
| For every pound of the next £200 | 0 0 9 |
| For every pound of the next £200 | 0 1 1½ |
| For every pound of the next £200 | 0 1 6 |
| For every pound of the next £400 | 0 3 0 |
| For every pound of the next £800 | 0 4 6 |
| For every pound of the next £1,000 | 0 6 0 |
| For every pound of the next £1,000 | 0 7 6 |
| For every pound of the next £1,000 | 0 9 0 |
| For every pound of the next £5,000 | 0 11 3 |
| For every pound exceeding £10,000 | 0 15 0 |

There are special rates for incomes which do not exceed £50.

Early in 1948 an arrangement was concluded with H.M. Government for the avoidance of double taxation. The main result of this arrangement, which is in line with similar arrangements concluded by H.M. Government with the U.S.A., Canada, Australia and certain other Colonies, is that the profits of a British trading concern having a permanent establishment in Nigeria will bear the full rate of Nigerian Companies’ Tax, the burden of relieving the resultant double taxation being borne by the U.K. The arrangement is retrospective to April, 1946.

The yield from income tax has increased progressively since its introduction in 1940, the apparent decline in 1946/47 being due to the fact that an exceptional amount of arrears was collected in 1945/46:

Revenue Derived from Income Tax:
Individuals and Companies

| Year | Revenue (£) |
|------|------------|
| 1939-40 | 99,141 |
| 1940-41 | 280,737 |
| 1941-42 | 565,805 |
| 1942-43 | 864,421 |
| 1943-44 | 1,517,283 |
| 1944-45 | 1,370,714 |
| 1945-46 | 2,496,641 |
| 1946-47 | 2,004,721 |

Natives outside the township of Lagos pay a General Tax assessed in a variety of ways in conformity with local, political, social and economic conditions, and ranging from the individual assessment of wealthy traders in large towns to a flat rate in backward areas.

Customs Tariff (Summarised)

The First Schedule to the Customs Ordinance, 1942, enumerates articles on which import and export duties are imposed, together with articles that may be imported free of duty. Duties were raised early in 1948, examples of rates in force at 31st March, 1948, being:

Wearing apparel (shirts, singlets, boots, shoes) ad valorem or specific rates.

Bicycles 15s. each.

Clocks and watches 1s 3d. each or 20 per cent. ad valorem.

Motor cars 10s. per 28 lbs. net weight.

Motor lorries £6 5s. each.

Motor spirit 10d. the gallon.

Toilet preparations 66½ per cent. ad valorem.

Provisions 20 per cent. ad valorem or specific rates.

Brandy, gin, rum and whisky £3 15s. the gallon.

Other spirits £3 15s. the gallon or 66½ per cent. ad valorem.

Tobacco—unmanufactured 4s. 3d. the pound.

Cigars £1 the hundred.

Cigarettes £3 the thousand or £1 6s. the pound.

Exemptions from import duties include advertising matter, aircraft, goods imported by the British Overseas Corporation and similar corporations, and for the service of Government Departments and Native Administrations, mosquito nets and agricultural, mining, water-boring and industrial development machinery. Approximately 66 per cent. of Nigerian import duty is derived from tobacco, salt, spirits, piece goods and petroleum products.

Export Duties

At 31st March, 1948, the export duties in force were:

Cocoa £6 10s. per ton.

Palm kernel oil £2 per ton.

Palm kernels £2 per ton.

Palm oil £3 per ton.

Tin 6s. 8d per ton.

Fresh bananas 3d. per count bunch.

Dry bananas 2d. per 10 lbs.

Cattle hides £19 per ton.

Sheep skins £33 per ton.

Goat skins £55 per ton.

Groundnuts £2 10s. per ton.
### Statement of the Expenditure for the period 1st April, 1947, to 31st March, 1948

| Head                                      | Estimates 1947–48 | Actual expenditure 1st April, 1947, to 31st March, 1948 |
|-------------------------------------------|-------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| 1. Public Debt                            | £1,653,340        | £1,663,435 s. d.                                       |
| 2. The Governor                           | 14,960            | 18,540 12 1                                            |
| 3. Accountant-General                     | 93,250            | 95,107 10 9                                           |
| 4. Administrator-General                  | 7,450             | 6,498 10 5                                            |
| 5. Agriculture                           | 485,490           | 517,720 17 4                                          |
| 6. Audit                                  | 43,630            | 45,065 19 7                                           |
| 7. Aviation                               | 157,060           | 102,798 9 11                                          |
| 8. Chemistry                              | 7,870             | 7,134 19 5                                            |
| 9. Colliery                               | 25,290            | 215,418 5 8                                           |
| 10. Commerce and Industries                | 29,500            | 22,968 16 11                                          |
| 11. Co-operative Societies                | 29,520            | 29,013 14 2                                           |
| 12. Customs and Excise                    | 190,560           | 201,969 13 8                                          |
| 13. Education                             | 1,140,480         | 1,390,700 6 7                                         |
| 14. Electricity                          | 326,500           | 322,160 13 10                                        |
| 15. Forestry                              | 197,370           | 148,372 12 9                                         |
| 16. Geological Survey                     | 25,150            | 18,977 11 8                                           |
| 17. Inland Revenue                        | 40,270            | 34,872 16 5                                           |
| 18. Judicial                              | 97,990            | 126,243 3 1                                           |
| 19. Labour                                | 73,110            | 59,124 14 9                                           |
| 20. Land                                  | 97,200            | 171,219 2 7                                           |
| 21. Legal                                 | 22,760            | 24,310 14 11                                         |
| 22. Legislature                           | 6,200             | 6,445 14 0                                           |
| 23. Marine                                | 888,850           | 892,072 17 10                                        |
| 24. Medical                               | 981,470           | 1,090,290 18 8                                       |
| 25. Medical—Sleeping Sickness Service     | 51,520            | 52,522 9 1                                            |
| 26. Military and Defence                  | 753,870           | 402,478 19 1                                         |
| 27. Mines                                 | 39,350            | 37,585 15 11                                         |
| 28. Miscellaneous                         | 1,889,240         | 1,096,839 16 4                                       |
| 29. Pensions and Gratuities               | 748,590           | 850,667 8 9                                          |
| 30. Police                                | 605,150           | 922,365 12 1                                         |
| 31. Posts and Telegraphs                  | 672,020           | 683,225 15 1                                         |
| 32. Printing with Central Stationery Depot| 138,680          | 128,018 1 6                                          |
| 33. Prisons                               | 287,450           | 289,669 17 11                                        |
| 34. Provincial Administration             | 686,010           | 827,888 19 5                                         |
| 35. Public Relations                      | 77,130            | 61,255 6 0                                           |
| 36. Public Works                          | 398,150           | 485,333 12 10                                        |
| 37. Public Works, Recurrent—Maintenance Works | 757,560 | 808,844 1 2                                       |
| 38. Public Works, Recurrent—Maintenance Services | 277,100 | 381,730 10 4                                     |
| 39. Public Works, Extraordinary           | 783,420           | 887,234 12 5                                         |
| 40. Resettlement of Ex-Servicemen         | 133,790           | 135,117 11 1                                         |
| 41. Secretariat, Nigerian                 | 75,250            | 101,448 18 10                                        |
| 42. Statistics                            | 44,760            | 91,184 14 10                                         |
| 43. Subventions                           | 246,920           | 458,673 8 4                                          |
| 44. Survey                                | 101,660           | 80,384 9 11                                          |
| 45. Transport and Oil Control             | 35,620            | 32,017 5 2                                           |
| 46. Veterinary                            | 84,480            | 89,066 12 11                                         |
| 47. Development and Welfare               | 337,910           | 130,729 9 8                                          |
| **Total**                                 | **£15,860,900**   | **£16,162,766 16 7**                                  |
| 48. Colonial Development and Welfare Schemes | 2,047,300 | **£1,023,173 10 11**                                |
| **Grand Total**                           | **£17,908,200**   | **£17,185,940 7 6**                                  |

### Yearly Revenue and Expenditure

| Year | Revenue | Expenditure |
|------|---------|-------------|
| 1938–39 | £5,811,088 | £6,867,408 |
| 1939–40 | £6,113,126 | £6,498,566 |
| 1940–41 | £7,273,157 | £7,254,325 |
| 1941–42 | £7,975,054 | £7,026,894 |
| 1942–43 | £9,034,154 | £8,998,795 |
| 1943–44 | £10,913,200 | £9,976,537 |
| 1944–45 | £11,444,756 | £10,132,599 |
| 1945–46 | £13,200,428 | £10,692,776 |
| 1946–47 | £14,832,438 | £14,051,688 |
| 1947–48 | £18,259,310 | £17,185,940 |
Public Debt

(a) Total public debt as at 31st March, 1947, £22,064,599.

| Year | Amount | Period of Redemption |
|------|--------|-----------------------|
| 1919 | 6,363,226 | 1949–1979 Trustee security. |
| 1923 | 5,700,000 | 1963 Trustee security. |
| 1930 | 4,263,373 | 1950–1960 Trustee security. |
| 1935 | 4,188,000 | 1955 Trustee security. |
| 1946 | 300,000 | 1956–1961 Trustee security. |
| 1947 | 1,250,000 | 1966–1971 Trustee security. |

Total 22,064,599

The above excludes £94,000, Colonial Development and Welfare Scheme Loan in respect of Scheme No. D.259.

(b) Total annual charges:

(i) Annual interest £989,603
(ii) Annual contribution to sinking fund £201,284

Total £1,190,887

(c) Total value of sinking funds as at 31st March, 1947:

(i) Statutory sinking fund £5,510,972
(ii) Supplementary sinking fund £1,551,825
(iii) Reserve fund £1,500,000

Total £8,562,797

The 1947–57 5 per cent. loan £4,250,000 was redeemed during the year ended 31st March, 1947, by the repayment of £3,000,000 in cash and by the issue of £1,250,000 2½ per cent. Conversion Loan stock at a discount of one per cent. This conversion loan was issued on 1st March, 1947, by the Crown Agents.

Currency and Banking

The unit of currency is the pound, maintained at par with sterling by the West African Currency Board which issues and redeems currency in the four British West African colonies against deposits and withdrawals of sterling in London. The media of circulation consists of £1 and 10s. notes, and alloy and nickel-bronze coins of 2s., 1s., 6d., 1d., ½d. and ¼d. issued by the board. All coins which, under the coinage acts of 1870 and 1891, are legal tender in the United Kingdom, and all West African and Nigerian subsidiary coins, are legal tender in Nigeria, gold and silver and alloy coins to any extent and bronze and nickel-bronze coins to the amount of 1s.

Native currency in the form of cowries, manillas, and brass rods is still used in some parts, but importation is prohibited, and the abolition of such native currency is being gradually effected.

Accounts are kept in sterling both by the public and by Government.

Banking facilities are afforded by the Bank of British West Africa Limited, Barclays Bank (Dominion, Colonial and Overseas), the National Bank of Nigeria Limited, and the Agbonmagbe Bank Limited. The Bank of British West Africa is established at Lagos, Abeokuta, Calabar, Enugu, Ibadan, Jos, Kaduna, Maiduguri Kano, Onitsha, Oshogbo, Port Harcourt, Sapele, Minna and Zaria, Barclays Bank (D.C. & O.) has branches at Lagos, Ibadan, Zaria, Port Harcourt, Jos, Burutu, Kano, Victoria and Jiebu-Ode. The National Bank of Nigeria Limited and the Agbonmagbe Bank Limited are incorporated in Nigeria. The former has offices at Lagos, Agege, Abeokuta, Ibadan and Kano and the latter has offices at Lagos, Zaria, and Shagamu. Other banks incorporated in Nigeria since 1946 are the Nigerian Farmers Commercial Bank, Ltd. (1947), and the African Continental Bank (1948) both established in Lagos with African capital.

Production and Trade

Principal Products

Agriculture

Cocoa grown almost entirely as a cash crop, and palm kernels constitute valuable exports. In addition valuable surpluses of palm oil, groundnuts, benniseed, cotton, and bananas are exported, and some rubber. The production of foodstuffs for local consumption still remains, however, the most important part of Nigerian agriculture. The main food crops are yams, cassava, coco-yam, maize, rice, various species of legumes, fruit, especially oranges, bananas and plantains, palm oil, guinea corn, millet, beans and ground-nuts.

Forestry

In 1947, sawn timber taken under permit amounted to 3,480,000 cubic feet, of which 1,230,000 cubic feet were exported. Fuel taken under forestry control amounted to 10,900,000 stacked cubic feet. The chief items of minor forest produce exported were gum arabic valued at £64,300 and reptile skins valued at £191,000.

Veterinary

The principal veterinary products are hides and skins, meat, butter, cheese, clarified butter fat, bacon, sausages, fresh pork, pickled pork and lard. The figures for food production during 1947 were as follows:

| Pounds | Value |
|--------|-------|
| Weight | £ s. d. |
| Butter | 211,000 | 16,259 0 0 |
| Cheese | 47,000 | 3,154 10 0 |
| C.B.F. | 46,000 | 3,018 15 0 |
| Bacon | 72,684½ | 6,243 14 0 |
| Pork, fresh | 6,118¾ | 367 12 0 |
| Pickled pork | 4,610½ | 134 8 6 |
| Sausages | 6,047 | 320 19 1 |
| Lard | 2,339¼ | 116 0 14 |
| Cash sales offal | — | 198 5 3½ |

Total £29,813 4 0

Mining

The principal products of mining are cassiterite, columbite, gold, silver, lead, zinc and coal.

Local Industries

Traditional crafts which are often combined with farming, include spinning, weaving and dyeing, pottery, metal casting and beating wood carving and mat making. These have been augmented in the towns by other small-scale industries conducted mainly by Africans, such as the manufacture of soap and cigars, tailoring, book-binding, printing and publishing, building and furniture making, fruit-juice and mineral water manufacture, etc.
Other larger industrial undertakings are carried on for the most part either as part of the work of Government Departments or by the larger extra-territorial trading companies. Among the former may be mentioned the extensive workshops of the Nigerian Railway and Marine, electricity and water undertakings, and a P.W.D. sawmill; among the latter a large soap factory, a cigarette factory, a brewery and a sawmill and plywood factory.

There is a growing demand for accelerated industrial development which is being met by a combination of commercial and Governmental action, the principal medium of the latter being the Department of Commerce and Industries established in 1946. Its chief activities have so far been in connection with the development of the peasant textile industry, fisheries and tanning; the establishment of palm oil mills; and the operation of the dairy production scheme.

### Exports and Imports

| Year | U.K. | Total |
|------|------|-------|
|      | £    | £     |
| 1938 | 4,897,363 | 9,701,046 |
| 1939 | 3,648,021 | 6,757,136 |
| 1940 | 4,328,731 | 7,478,818 |
| 1941 | 3,695,241 | 6,505,116 |
| 1942 | 4,923,297 | 10,489,502 |
| 1943 | 7,436,562 | 12,418,239 |
| 1944 | 7,958,142 | 15,747,755 |
| 1945 | 7,935,057 | 13,583,118 |
| 1946 | 12,701,929 | 20,510,066 |
| 1947 | 16,163,755 | 32,465,682 |

| Year | U.K. | Total |
|------|------|-------|
|      | £    | £     |
| 1938 | 4,897,363 | 9,701,046 |
| 1939 | 6,227,127 | 10,468,732 |
| 1940 | 9,289,546 | 11,603,687 |
| 1941 | 11,340,122 | 13,782,579 |
| 1942 | 12,116,020 | 14,523,814 |
| 1943 | 12,484,451 | 15,151,562 |
| 1944 | 13,986,035 | 17,189,289 |
| 1945 | 12,859,377 | 18,050,873 |
| 1946 | 18,369,045 | 24,514,195 |
| 1947 | 28,304,572 | 38,330,050 |

Fuller particulars of imports and exports will be found in the Annual Trade Reports.

### Governors and Administrators of Lagos

#### Administrators

- **1861** H. S. Freeman (Governor).
- **1864** J. Hawley Glover, R.N. (Lt.-Governor).
- **1866** Admiral C. G. E. Patey Subject to the Governor-in-Chief at Sierra Leone.
- **1870** W. H. Simpson Governor-in-Chief at Sierra Leone.
- **1871** J. Hawley Glover, R.N. Subject to the Governor, Gold Coast.
- **1872** George Berkeley.
- **1874** Capt. G. C. Sirahan, R.A. Subject to the Governor, Gold Coast.
- **1874** Capt. C. C. Lees (Lt.-Gov.) Subject to the Governor, Gold Coast.
- **1880** W. Brandford Griffith, C.M.G. (Lt.-Gov.)
- **1887** C. A. Moloney, C.M.G. (Governor).

### Governors

- **1891** G. T. Carter, C.M.G.
- **1893** Sir Gilbert Carter, K.C.M.G.
- **1897** Lt.-Col. Sir Henry McCallum, R.E., K.C.M.G.
- **1899** Sir William MacGregor, K.C.M.G., C.B.
- **1902** H. Reeve, C.M.G.
- **1903** Sir William MacGregor, K.C.M.G., C.B.
- **1904** Walter Egerton, C.M.G.

### High Commissioners

#### Protectorate of Southern Nigeria

- **1900** Sir Ralph Moor, K.C.M.G.
- **1900** Colonel H. L. Gallway, C.M.G., D.S.O., Admin.

#### Protectorate of Northern Nigeria

- **1907** Sir E. P. C. Girouard.
- **1909** Sir H. Hesketh Bell, K.C.M.G.
- **1912** Sir F. D. Lugard, G.C.M.G., C.B., D.S.O.*

#### Colony and Protectorate of Southern Nigeria (Governors and Administrators)

- **1907** Sir Walter Egerton, K.C.M.G.
- **1912** Sir F. D. Lugard, G.C.M.G., C.B., D.S.O.*

#### Colony and Protectorate of Nigeria

- **1914** Sir F. D. Lugard, G.C.M.G., C.B., D.S.O.*
- **1919** Sir Hugh Clifford, G.C.M.G., G.B.E.
- **1926** Sir Graeme Thomson, G.C.M.G., K.C.B., K.B.E.
- **1931** Sir Donald C. Cameron, G.C.M.G., K.B.E.
- **1935** Sir Bernard H. Bourdillon, G.C.M.G., K.B.E.
- **1943** Sir Arthur F. Richards, G.C.M.G. (created Baron Milverton of Lagos and Clifton in 1947).
- **1947** Sir John S. Macpherson, K.C.M.G.

### Executive Council

Governor—Sir John S. Macpherson, K.C.M.G.

#### Ex-officio Members

- Chief Secretary to the Government—H. M. Foot, C.M.G., O.B.E.
- Chief Commissioner, Northern Provinces—Capt. E. W. Thompstone, C.M.G., M.C.
- Chief Commissioner, Eastern Provinces—Sir F. B. Carr, C.M.G.
- Chief Commissioner, Western Provinces—T. Hoskyns-Abrahall, C.M.G.
- Attorney-General—G. L. Howe, K.C.
- Financial Secretary—A. W. L. Savage, C.M.G.
- Director of Medical Services—Dr. G. B. Walker, C.B.E.,
- Director of Education—R. A. McL. Davidson C.M.G.

* Later Rt. Hon. Lord Lugard, P.C.
† Had the personal title of Governor-General.
Appointed Members

Alhaji Usman Nagogo, C.B.E. (Emir of Katsina).
Maj.-Gen. C. R. A. Swynnerton, D.S.O.
E. R. Carr.

LEGISLATIVE COUNCIL

Governor—President.

Official Members

Chief Secretary to the Government.
Chief Commissioner, Eastern Provinces.
Chief Commissioner, Western Provinces.
Chief Commissioner, Northern Provinces.
Attorney-General.
Financial Secretary.
Director of Medical Services.
Development Secretary.
Director of Education.
Director of Agriculture.
Director of Public Works.
Commissioner of Labour.
Commissioner of the Colony.
Three Nominated Official Members who shall be three Residents, one from each Region, appointed by the Governor for each meeting of Legislative Council.

Nominated Unofficial Members

(a) Appointed by the Northern House of Chiefs—
Yahaya, C.B.E., Emir of Gwandu.
Alhaji Usman Nagogo, Emir of Katsina.
Alhaji Ibrahima, Attah of Igbirra.
Sulemanu, Emir of Abuja.

(b) Appointed by the Northern House of Assembly—
Mallam Bello Kano.
Mallam Abubakar Tafawa Balewa.
Mallam Iro Katsina.
Mallam Aliyu, Makaman Bida.
Mallam Yahaya Ilorin.

(c) Appointed by the Governor from those Chiefs who are members of the Western House of Assembly—
Aderemi I, C.M.G., Oni of Ife.
Akenzua II, C.M.G., Oba of Benin.

(d) Appointed by the Western House of Assembly—
Rev. Canon S. A. Delumo.
Akinpelu Obisesan.
T. A. Odutola.
Gaius Obaseki.

(e) Appointed by the Eastern House of Assembly—
Bowari Brown.
C. D. Onyeama.
A. Ikoku.
Dr. F. A. Ibiam.
Nyong Essien.

(f) Appointed by the Governor for the Colony after consultation with the Native Authorities in the Colony—
Rev. T. A. J. Ogunbiyi, O.B.E.

(g) Appointed by the Governor to represent interests which are not otherwise adequately represented—
P. J. Rogers (First—representing Commerce).
Major J. West, M.C. (Second—representing Mining).
N. B. Edwards (Third—representing Shipping).
Major H. E. Wilson, E.D. (Temporary Member in place of Major J. West now on leave).

Elected Members

(a) For Lagos—
Dr. I. Olorun-Nimbe.
Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe.
Adeleke Adedoyin.

(b) For Calabar—
E. E. E. Anwan.

FOREIGN CONSULAR OFFICERS

Belgium—N. B. Edwards (Hon. Consul).
Denmark—N. Rasmusson (Hon. Consul).
France—G. Tourot (Consul); P. E. L. Gouty (Consular Agent).
Greece—K. Z. Pappas (Hon. Vice-Consul).
Lebanon—(Vacant) (Consul).
Liberia—N. B. Edwards (Acting) (Hon. Consul).
Netherlands—W. Verbeek (Hon. Consul).
Norway—B. Kirkham (Hon. Consul).
Spain—B. White (Hon. Vice-Consul (Lagos)); Don Jose Rosello Boleda (Hon. Vice-Consul (Calabar)).
Sweden—K. Rasmusson (Hon. Consul).
United States—C. P. Kuykendall (Consul-General); W. J. Drew, H. H. Williams (Vice-Consuls).

SHORT BIBLIOGRAPHY

For a fuller list, see the Nigeria Handbook (11th Edition, 1936).

Travel

Travels and Discoveries. Clapperton and Denham (1826).
Travels in Central Africa. Barth (1857).
Travels in West Africa. Kingsley (1900).
A Tropical Dependency. Lady Lugard (1905).
Nigerian Days. Hastings (1925).
Nigerian Sketches. Haig (1931).
Juju and Justice in Nigeria. Hives.

History, Anthropology, etc.

History of the Yorubas. Johnson (1921).
Dual Mandate in Tropical Africa. Lord Lugard (1922).
The Northern Tribes of Nigeria. (2 Vol.). Meek (1925).
The Peoples of Southern Nigeria (4 Vol.). Talbot (1926).
Nigeria under British Rule. Geary (1927).
History of Nigeria. Burns (1929).
Muhammadan Emirates of Nigeria. Hogben (1930).
Tribal Studies in Northern Nigeria. Meek (1931).
Hausa-English Dictionary. Bargery (1934).
Short History of Nigeria. Niven (1937).
Native Administration in Nigeria. Perham (1937).
Law and Authority in a Nigerian Tribe. Meek (1937).
An African Survey. Hailey (1938).
Nigeria, Outline of a Colony. Niven (1946).

Economics

British Enterprise in Nigeria. Cook (Philadelphia, 1943).
The Native Economies of Nigeria. Forde and Scott (1946).
Mining, Commerce and Finance in Nigeria. Bower and others, ed. Perham (1947).
Flora and Fauna

Flora of Tropical West Africa (4 vol.). Dalziel.

West African Agriculture. Faulkner and Mackie.

West African Big Game Records. Rowland Ward.

Animal Treasure. Sanderson.

Birds of Tropical West Africa (5 Vol.). Bannerman.

Common Birds of West Africa. Fairbairn.

CIVIL ESTABLISHMENT

Notes.

* Denotes acting appointment.

In the following particulars of the Civil Establishment:

Scale A is as follows:
- £450 for 3 years, 510–30–660, 720–30–960, 1,000.

Scale B is as follows:
- £450 for 3 years, 510–20–610, 660–30–900

Scale C is as follows:
1. £450 for 3 years, 510–15–600.
2. £650.
3. £660–20–720.
4. £735–30–825.

Scale N is as follows:
1. £350 for 3 years, 390–15–435–10–445.
2. £500–15–590–10–600.

Scale M2 is as follows:
- £690 for 3 years, 720–30–1,000, 1,080–30–1,200.

To the above quoted basic salaries, expatriation pay is added in the case of expatriate officers according to the following table:

| Basic Salary | Expatriation Pay |
|--------------|------------------|
| Any salary less than £450 | £125 |
| £450–599     | £150 |
| £600–700     | £200 |
| £701–829     | £250 |
| £830–1,050   | £300 |
| £1,051–1,175 | £350 |
| £1,176–1,350 | £400 |
| £1,351–1,600 | £450 |
| £1,601–1,850 | £500 |
| Over £1,850  | £600 |

Officers provided by Government with furnished quarters are charged rent, assessed in accordance with salary.

Salaries quoted below are in every case basic, that is excluding expatriation pay.

GOVERNOR'S OFFICE

Governor and Commander-in-Chief—Sir John Stuart MacPherson, K.C.M.G. £6,500. Duty, £1,750.

Private Secretary—R. Varvill, D.S.C. (seconded from Provincial Administration). Scale A.

Aide-de-Camp—A. O. Jones (seconded from Nigeria Police). Scale B.

ADMINISTRATIVE

Secretariat

Chief Secretary to the Government—H. M. Foot, C.M.G., O.B.E. £2,550.

Financial Secretary—A. W. L. Savage, C.M.G. £1,900.

Development Secretary—C. J. Pleass. £1,750.

Civil Service Commissioner—T. V. Scrivenor. £1,750.

Commissioners on Special Duty—F. E. V. Smith, C.M.G.; Sir Sydney Phillipson, K.B., C.M.G. £2,500 consolidated.

Administrative Secretary—H. F. Marshall. £1,650.

Deputy Financial Secretary—R. W. C. Baker-Beall, M.B.E. £1,450.

Deputy Civil Service Commissioner (seconded from Provincial Administration)—I. W. E. Dods. £1,400.

Director of Supplies—H. B. Cox. £1,350.

Principal Assistant Secretaries—D. A. F. Shute; S. Macdonald Smith; *H. F. P. Wetherell, M.B.E.; *W. D. Spence; *A. G. R. Mooring; *J. O. Field. £1,350.

Assistant Financial Secretary—R. F. A. Grey. £1,200.

Assistant Civil Service Commissioners—A. Y. Cann; W. R. T. Milne; N. E. Whiting; A. K. Judd; N. C. A. Levy (acting seconded from Railway). £1,200.

Assistant Secretaries—Major C. U. G. Tristram; A. A. Williams, O.B.E.; V. H. Moult; E. H. M. Counsell; M. B. Hall; B. Halstead; J. A. G. McCall; L. Bain; R. E. Greswell, M.B.E.; D. Inglis; D. H. Griffiths; P. Coryndon; M. R. Raymer; F. D. K. Williams; S. Ade Ojo, M.B.E.; P. H. Balmer; D. E. O. Johnson, M.B.E.; J. C. H. Farmer; A. G. Eyre; J. G. Davies; D. J. Cowperthwaite; S. O. Adebo; F. H. A. Bex; L. A. Kuyinu; M. J. Bennion; W. T. Warmann; K. B. Scott, M.B.E.; F. D. C. Williams; G. J. Davies; H. J. S. Beazley, D.F.C.; G. E. Harris, M.C.; W. M. Bradley; C. W. I. Arnold; J. R. Smith; P. McC. Boyce; J. A. Williams; I. F. Nicholson; D. I. G. Scanlan; R. A. Berrif (seconded from Accountant General's Department).

Chairman, Military Pensions Assessments Board—Major W. I. Wiffin (seconded from Nigeria Regiment). £900.

Editor of "Nigeria" and Organiser of Exhibitions—E. H. Duckworth. £1,075.

Surveyor of Antiquities—K. C. Murray. £1,000.

Chief Commissioner, Northern Provinces

Chief Commissioner—Capt. E. W. Thompstone, C.M.G., M.C. £2,400.

Secretary (seconded from Provincial Administration)—L. H. Goble.

Staff (seconded from Provincial Administration)—A. J. Knott; A. T. Weatherhead; A. C. F. Armstrong; R. O. Mant; H. A. S. Johnston, D.F.C.; P. H. G. Scott; D. B. Wright; Lt.-Col. P. H. G. Stallard, M.B.E.; K. D. Warren; I. R. Bird; A. Olajide; C. D. Tay.

Chief Commissioner, Western Provinces

Chief Commissioner—T. Hoskyns-Abrahall, C.M.G. £1,950.

Secretary (seconded from Provincial Administration)—P. V. Main.

Staff (seconded from Provincial Administration)—W. R. Hatch; D. M. Elliott; J. F. Hayley; A. Holden; F. D. McGrath.

Chief Commissioner, Eastern Provinces

Chief Commissioner—Commander J. G. Pyke-Knott, R.N., C.M.G. Group A.3.

Secretary (seconded from Provincial Administration)—E. J. Gibbons, C.B.E.

Staff (seconded from Provincial Administration)—G. B. G. Chapman; E. R. Chadwick, O.B.E.; A. M. Gerrard; R. A. Stevens; P. F. Grant; W. S. King, M.B.E.
Administrative Service

Staff Grade—E. A. Miller; E. K. Featherstone, C.M.G.; B. E. Sharwood Smith, E.D.; L. H. Goble; E. A. Carr; E. J. Gibbons, C.B.E.; C. R. Niven, M.C.; A. F. B. Bridges; I. W. E. Dods. £1,500.

Class I—Capt. J. C. F. Pender, M.C.; J. W. Hartley; P. M. Riley; D. A. F. Shute; J. S. Smith; A. T. E. Marsh; M. V. Backhouse, M.B.E.; V. K. Johnson; C. J. Mayne; J. G. C. Allen; J. H. Blair, E.D.; C. W. Rowling; T. Farley Smith, O.B.E.; P. V. Main; S. E. Johnson, R.N.; L. T. Chubb; G. H. Payton; C. V. Williams; G. B. G. Chapman; R. J. M. Curwen; S. Macdonald-Smith; H. Cooper; E. N. C. Dickinson. £1,350.

Class II—Lt.-Cdr. W. M. Bridges, R.N.; R. L. B. Maiden; A. Leeming; Capt. H. Mercer, M.C., D.F.C.; H. L. M. Butcher; H. C. Gill; F. H. MacBride; R. H. Maddox; H. J. S. Clark; E. R. Chadwick, O.B.E.; I. F. W. Schofield, E.D.; J. H. Shaw; P. F. Brandt; F. R. Kay; R. L. V. Wilkes; H. Spottiswoode; A. J. Knott; C. K. Wreford; T. B. Bovell-Jones; A. V. Scallon; T. M. Shankland; C. W. Cole; H. F. P. Wetherell, M.B.E.; A. F. Abell; S. P. L. Beaumont; J. G. MacKenzie; F. Humphreys; W. R. Hatch; J. H. Beeley; K. P. Maddocks; R. H. Gretton; J. E. B. Hall; W. Fowler; Capt. R. A. Vosper; G. D. C. Money, M.C.; N. E. Whiting; O. V. Lee, E.D.; A. R. Bailey; A. T. Weatherhead; W. D. Spence; C. V. Pegge; H. B. Cox; A. G. R. Mooring; A. Y. Cann; W. R. T. Milne; R. F. A. Grey. £1,200.

Classes III and IV—Capt. C. G. MacKenzie; E. V. H. Toovey; S. H. V. White; K. J. Bryant; Lt.-Col. A. R. A. de Garston; R. N. O. Marshall, D.S.C., R.N.R.; J. A. Hilton; G. R. Osborn; Capt. G. M. Baker; C. H. Croasdale; R. L. Delves-Broughton; R. G. Biddulph; J. Macrae Simpson, M.B.E., E.D.; C. H. L. Bubb; C. E. L. Anderson; E. C. Figgis; C. H. S. R. Palmer; J. Brayne-Baker; B. W. Walter; H. W. Pierce; R. K. Floyer; N. A. P. G. Mackenzie; B. M. MacFarlane; W. L. Cox; F. A. Goodliffe; T. E. Lechworth; Flt.-Lt. O. J. F. Jones-Lloyd; C. U. G. Tristram, E.D.; I. R. P. Heslop; W. K. D. Macray; A. B. Westmacott; J. E. Jull; F. M. Woodhouse; H. K. Robinson; W. F. H. Newington; R. B. Cardale; R. B. B. Eustace; A. C. F. Armstrong; Capt. R. E. Beavor; J. M. Calder; J. E. Davies; T. F. G. Hopkins; P. P. Grey; D. P. Stanfield; W. J. R. Mellor; H. N. C. Harcourt; H. N. G. Thompson; G. Wilson; W. H. Paul; I. G. Gunn; R. L. Findley; G. F. D. Atkinson; C. T. C. Ennals; J. G. Lenox-Connyngham; C. I. Gavin; D. H. E. Vesey; J. L. Gordon; W. Plant; G. E. F. Savory; A. K. Judd; C. W. Michie, O.B.E.; V. H. Moult; Lt.-Col. E. C. Alderton; E. H. M. Counsell; R. de S. Stapledon; H. J. M. Harding; A. J. Phillips; O. P. Gunning; J. H. Ellis; M. H. Varvill; A. F. F. P. Newns; I. C. Giles, M.B.E.; C. A. L. Guise, M.B.E.; L. T. Stevenson; G. Lorimer; C. P. Thomson; H. P. Elliott; H. L. Noble; B. St. G. Thwaites; R. O. Mant; S. White; H. A. S. Johnson, D.F.C.; J. A. G. McCall; P. H. G. Scott; C. J. L. Reynolds; B. C. Cartland; A. Cohen; D. A. Pott; J. O. Field; A. M. Muir; J. H. D. Stapleton; G. L. Stephenson; D. M. Elliott; F. D. Jakeway; M. R. M. Haig; T. F. Barker; H. P. W. Murray; D. W. Russell; B. G. Smith; L. L. K. Pickford; C. M. H. Harrison; D. B. Wright; Lt.-Col. P. H. G. Stallard, M.B.E.; K. M. Walmesley; M. B. Hall; L. Bain; W. M. Milliken; J. A. Allison; J. S. Dudding; R. E. Brown; D. Smith; J. R. V. A. Bromage; J. E. A. Baker; F. Martin-Davies; C. L. Walker; F. B. Hadow; J. Taylor; H. Wrench; W. H. Ramsay; G. de la P. Cassels; F. P. Cobb; J. D. Hamilton; N. F. Cooke; R. E. Greswell; A. M. Gerrard; E. O. W. Hunt, D.S.O.; P. L. Trevorrow; R. A. Stevens; D. A. Murphy; L. S. Watt; B. Halstead; J. M. Cruddas; R. J. Purdy; J. F. Hayley; A. M. Macleod-Smith; R. M. Leslie; D. W. Arnott; E. A. Lewis; D. Inglis, W. S. Carter; B. E. B. Fagg; J. H. Bourne; H. S. Seaford; D. H. Griffiths; G. Horne; C. de N. Hill; A. H. Robin; M. N. H. Milne; M. C. Atkinson; J. H. F. MacGiffin; E. C. Powell; J. M. B. Blair-Fish; P. Coryndon; A. Holden; S. J. Moore; B. A. Abbott; H. J. Pedraza; V. L. Cornish; E. Broadbent; H. G. Jelf; V. E. Collison; D. H. Lloyd-Morgan; B. Greatbatch; T. G. Lawrence; M. R. Raymer; P. A. Richardson; J. B. Bell; G. W. Thom; J. D. L. Booth; C. E. Iles; N. C. McClintock; R. R. C. Holland; J. C. Britton; H. E. Rylands; S. J. Henry; M. J. Hollis; K. D. Warren; P. M. Laws; J. A. Clewley; R. F. Scott-Fleming; F. D. K. Williams; S. Ade-Ojo, M.B.E.; P. H. Balmer; D. E. O. Johnson, M.B.E.; J. C. H. Farmer; A. G. Eyre; R. Angeloni; D. E. Glason; J. G. Davies; F. D. McGrath; J. B. Craig; D. J. Cowperthwaite; P. L. Allpress; S. O. Adebo; P. F. Grant; M. S. Staveley; A. P. Smith; A. N. Skinner; J. R. Bird; F. H. A. Bex; G. D. F. Hadcoe; M. Widdup; A. Olajide; C. D. Tay; L. A. Kuyinu; M. J. Bennion; B. A. Manuwa; W. T. Warrman; W. S. King, M.B.E.; R. Varvill; B. H. Brackenbury; B. Abbott, M.B.E.; E. J. V. Williams, M.C.; J. A. Bey; D. R. Gibbs, D.S.O.; S. W. C. Holland; J. F. Ross, M.C.; L. Roberts, M.C.; N. Bonner Gash; J. N. Vaughan; P. F. Haycock; Major J. A. Williams; W. St. P. M. Hancock; G. F. D. Haslewood; W. M. Wood; T. F. Bolter, D.F.C.; A. Bower; R. G. Adams; C. B. Dodwell, D.F.C.; K. B. Scott, M.B.E.; D. L. Roberts; T. M. Duckham; Major R. S. Owens; A. C. Williams; J. Christian; G. W. S. Dudley; G. E. Jones, M.B.E.; J. H. Mackie, M.C.; M. A. Mann; R. D. W. Strickland; E. G. Lewis, M.B.E.; K. B. Keith; W. Simpson; M. G. de Winton, M.C.; F. D. C. Williams; F. Davies; Lt.-Col. J. W. Etty-Leal, M.B.E.; C. J. Gunton; Major J. F. Hindle; Sq.-Ldr. J. A. Jones; G. K. Monro; J. Murray; C. N. F. Odgers; A. I. Osakwe; N. C. Perkins; H. R. I. Sackville-West, M.C.; Major W. S. Smith; Capt. W. I. Brinkworth, M.B.E.; A. U. Case; K. Y. M. Mackenzie, M.B.E.; Major P. G. McMullan, M.M.; R. L. Morley; C. J. Ollard; D. de M. Robin, M.B.E.; T. H. Sandford; Capt. A. Urquhart; J. S. O. Ogunnaike; D. C. Rounthwaite; P. R. Crews; J. R. Boss, D.S.O.; Major E. Walker, D.S.O.; R. P. Watkins; R. N. Barlow-Poole; J. S. Nevill, M.C.; T. N. Rosser, D.F.C.; R. Ennis; N. A. Morrison; Capt.
G. J. Davies; W. F. Farrant; Capt. E. P. Lanning; P. L. Wood; P. A. Grier; Capt. R. F. Benoy; D. G. Cudmore; Major R. H. Prince; Sq.-Ldr. R. H. Shepherd, O.B.E.; Capt. J. E. King; C. A. Brooke; Sq.-Ldr. R. A. Clarke, D.F.C.; Lt.-Col. A. J. W. Clarke; W. J. Griffith; D. J. Muffett; P. S. Thirsk; P. M. Wand-Tetley, M.C.; F. Walker; Major V. H. Warren; Capt. B. K. Cooper; Capt. W. S. Howard; St. E. D. Nelson; R. J. Elkerton; Major R. G. Hodgson; I. F. Nicolson; P. Parkin; H. J. S. Beazley, D.F.C.; Flt.-Lt. J. C. Wilson, M.B.E.; D. F. Barton; J. P. P. Gibbs; Major R. R. Branford; M. J. Adams; F. G. Rogers; J. O. B. Malcolm; G. F. Harris; Flt.-Lt. P. M. G. Kemmis, D.F.C.; T. M. Ainsworth; C. C. Brigstocke; R. Goddard-Wilson; Capt. W. N. Kay; Capt. J. W. Leach; J. Miles; F/Off. R. W. Pembleton; R. C. Smith; H. M. Wittington; Lt. J. W. Matthew; Major W. D. Wilson, M.C., D.S.C.; Major P. H. M. Vischer; W. B. Nicholas; Capt. H. R. Stephens; R. Coatsworth; Lt. I. C. Jackson; Major A. G. Saville; Lt. R. W. Phelps; Capt. G. F. Anson; Major G. L. Aitchison; Capt. E. M. Catto; A. G. F. Dicham; Major I. A. G. Gilles; R. W. Gunston; P. J. Harris; Major R. F. A. Hunter, M.C.; Lt. D. N. Leich, R.N.V.R.; Capt. J. D. Logan; T. R. W. Longmore; Lt. S. McCallum; A. M. Moodie; T. Oates, M.B.E.; Major A. D. Patterson, M.B.E.; Capt. P. D. S. Colman; H. J. A. Cassidy; P. T. Barton, M.B.E.; D. I. G. Scanlan; J. J. Balmain; H. A. G. Acton; J. K. Brownlees; K. J. Hilton; A. D. Jones; C. E. B. B. Simpson; A. H. St. J. Wood; A. C. E. Long; S. C. Pollard; Lt.-Col. P. Ratcliffe; C. Law; V. M. Ashwell; N. Barwick; P. McC. Boyce; A. A. Williams, O.B.E.; D. I. Wauton; G. T. Rochie Scale A.

ACCOUNTANT-GENERAL

Accountant-General—Col. P. W. Adshead. £1,400.

Deputy Accountant-General—H. C. Ley. £1,175.

Principal Accountants—E. C. G. Fuller; Capt. A. B. Jones, E.D.; J. M. Pryde; N. Turner; H. S. Jervois. £1,050.

Senior Accountants and Accountants—J. A. O. Robertson; E. Harding; K. H. Wilson-West; H. Boothroyd; A. W. Dickes; F. Davidson; I. E. MacRae; J. E. Briscoe; S. N. Obi; E. J. Hart; W. Struth; D. R. Jones; G. T. Hole; J. Dixon; A. S. Lindsey; J. C. Wells; H. Wardle; H. O. Phillips; A. Orimalade; J. Bridgett; M. B. A. Adele; J. A. Grillo; A. O. Lipede; T. M. Hartill; W. J. Kellas; V. J. W. Blackman; J. Burch; K. Brinton; P. H. Brookshank; R. A. Berriff. Scale B.

ADMINISTRATOR-GENERAL

Administrator-General—E. G. Fitt. £1,150.

Assistant Administrator-General—H. H. Marshall. Scale A.

AGRICULTURE

Director of Agriculture—A. G. Beatie. £1,750.

Deputy Director of Agriculture—J. D. Brown. £1,400.

Deputy Directors of Agriculture (Regional)—J. W. Wallace; M. Park. £1,350.

Assistant Directors—D. H. Brown, S. D. Ross. £1,200.

Principals of Schools—D. W. H. Baker; D. H. Welch.

Agricultural Officers—J. W. R. Pedder; R. B. Shorter; E. T. Holmes; D. B. Sabiston; F. E. Buckley; C. B. Taylor; A. V. Gilberd, M.B.E.; A. F. W. Sheffield; E. W. Momber; M. W. Gibbon; W. T. Dalgarno; J. F. Ward; V. F. O. Olivier; J. R. Miller; J. M. S. Usher-Wilson; J. D. Tallantire; R. F. A. L. Reed; C. H. F. Walker; W. F. Gwilliam; J. R. Brown; E. J. Butler; T. N. Greeves; F. J. Harper; P. A. Getting; T. A. Phillips; J. W. D. Goodban; P. L. Bradley; A. H. S. Vigo; D. B. Jamieson; J. A. K. Thompson; V. E. Gale; T. E. Ryall; H. J. Taylor; R. B. Warner; S. Hunter; T. D. Smith; L. D. G. Cromwell; F. G. Bridges; W. J. C. Little. Scale A.

Entomologists—J. T. Davey; A. Pickles. Scale A.

Senior Chemist and Chemists—K. T. Hartley; W. A. Watson; Dr. H. Vine; M. Greenwood; H. Irving. Scale A.

Officer i/c Oil Palm Research Station—F. W. Toovey. £1,200.

Senior Botanists and Botanists—W. E. Freeman; T. A. Russell; J. M. Waterston; J. H. Gisborne; A. C. Trueblood; D. H. Maggs. Scale A.

Senior Agricultural Economist—Vacant. Scale A.

Accountant—W. Bain. Scale B.

AUDIT

Director of Audit—A. C. Hands. £1,400.

Deputy Director of Audit—J. K. Buchanan. £1,175.

Principal Auditors—F. F. B. Smart; R. Fisher; H. D. D. Wilkinson; R. N. Seeman; A. H. Armitage. £1,050.

Senior Auditors—C. A. G. Coleridge; R. M. A. McColl; D. E. Barnett. Scale B.

Auditors and Assistant Auditors—E. L. Clegg; N. J. Insley; G. A. Hutchinson; J. E. Earnshaw, D.F.C.; W. H. J. Andrew-Blamey; A. E. Lewis; J. V. Gatchfield; W. M. Fell; J. Lee; P. O. Newell; D. T. Clark; Major C. R. Reid; N. Catterall; A. Ogedegbe; G. C. Anyaegbunam; T. A. Williams; S. W. Pieryc. Scale B.

AVIATION

Director of Civil Aviation—A. W. Savage. £1,500.

Controller of Civil Aviation—Vacant. £1,200.

Assistant Controller of Civil Aviation—Vacant. £1,050.

Aerodrome Control Officers—R. R. B. Simpson; D. K. Forsdyke; T. Miles; C. K. Cole. Scale C.2, 3.

Aerodrome Fire Supervisor—A. R. Gooch. Scale C.1, 2, 3.

Assistant Airport Manager—P. J. H. Harrington; G. D. Read. Scale B.

CHEMISTRY

Government Chemist—R. K. Hardy. £1,200.

Assistant Government Chemists—Capt. J. A. R. Stoyle; K. S. Feltham; T. H. Jones. Scale A.

COLLIERY

Colliery Manager—R. Bracegirdle. £1,350.

Deputy Colliery Manager—B. S. Passmore. £1,150.

Colliery Engineer—J. M. Macdonald. Scale A.

Colliery Surveyor—J. A. Scott. Scale A.

Personnel Manager—R. W. H. Saint. Scale A.

Chief Underground Manager—J. Mcl. Moran. £1,050.
Senior Accountant—A. W. Dickes. £1,050.
Underground Managers—T. E. Cox; I. Howells; F. Buckley. Scale C.2, 3.
Electrical Engineer—A. Lee. Scale A.

COMMERCE AND INDUSTRIES
Director of Commerce and Industries—Vacant. £1,500.
Deputy Director of Commerce and Industries—M. W. Thomson. £1,200.
Commercial Officer—G. W. Taylor. £1,100.
Principal Accountant—R. F. Vickers. £1,050.
Fisheries Development Officer—O. E. Symes. £1,050.
Fisheries Officer—Major P. I. R. Maclaren. Scale A.
Textile Expert—A. E. Southern. £840.
Supervisor, Pioneer Oil Mills—J. R. Brocklebank. £1,150.

CO-OPERATIVE SOCIETIES
Registrar of Co-operative Societies—R. H. Gretton (seconded from Provincial Administration). £1,350.
Deputy Registrar of Co-operative Societies—Vacant. £1,150.
Assistant Registrars of Co-operative Societies and Co-operative Officers—J. E. Jull; C. F. D. Atkinson (seconded from Provincial Administration); E. I. Price; D. M. M. Severn; R. M. Leslie (seconded from Provincial Administration); M. O. K. Onwuli; O. Batye; R. K. Adams; A. T. S. Ramsbottom; D. Barnie. Scale A.

CUSTOMS AND EXCISE
Comptroller of Customs and Excise—W. T. Martin, E.D. £1,400.
Deputy Comptroller of Customs and Excise—W. G. Quann. £1,175.
Assistant Comptroller of Customs and Excise—W. J. E. Rodwell. £1,100.
Chief Inspectors of Customs and Excise—C. M. Bayfield; R. P. M. T. Barrett, E.D. £1,050.
Principal Collector of Customs and Excise—G. J. Bonavia. £1,050.
Collectors of Customs and Excise—A. J. V. de Boissiere; F. D. Staplepool; R. F. F. C. Blennerhassett; A. C. Williams; J. W. Day; D. A. Cole; J. O. Ugbooma; R. A. Bazuaye; R. A. Fluellen; J. H. Bedford, M.B.E.; A. E. White; D. B. Stuart; I. K. Rhodes; E. A. Akinyanju; A. D. M. Wilson; R. G. Acton; J. W. Green; G. C. G. F. Rose. Scale B.

EDUCATION
Director of Education—R. A. McL. Davidson. £1,750.
Deputy Director of Education—R. J. Mason. £1,400.
Deputy Directors of Education (Regional)—C. T. Quinn-Young; J. B. Gott; S. Milburn. £1,350.
Deputy Director of Education (Women)—Miss G. Plummer, M.B.E. £1,100.
Deputy Director of Education (Technical)—Dr. J. Harris. £1,350.
Chief Inspectors—W. T. Mackell; H. R. Phillips; W. G. Holt, O.B.E. £1,200.
Principals—W. Simpson; V. B. V. Powell; A. W. A. Spicer; H. H. Jeffers; J. W. A. Thorburn. £1,075.
Education Officers—E. A. L. Gaskin; Dr. R. M. East; A. A. Shillingford; F. K. Butler, E.D.; J. G. Speer; J. D. Clarke; A. Hunt-Cooke; T. R. Batten; C. K. Brooke-Hunt; J. E. H. White; L. J. Lister; A. H. Parnaby; A. H. Smith; E. E. Thomas; E. A. Cadle; W. S. de G. Rankin; W. B. Benton-Evans; R. F. Hogarth; W. F. Jeffries; C. Ll. Rice; M. G. Wood; F. D. Hibbert; H. W. Church; A. C. Carpenter, M.B.E.; F. Smithies; C. Graham; A. D. Porter; C. Bell; O. Waterfield; H. G. Butler; E. Arthur; R. H. Wright; W. H. P. Browne; Miss K. A. Dobbs; Miss E. M. Baker; H. J. Savory; Miss C. V. Kendall; A. B. Cozens; W. C. Low; J. F. M. Heaney; A. J. Spicer; S. U. Etuk; G. P. Savage; Miss D. Osborne; Miss K. A. Player; Miss G. M. Herra; Miss J. M. Patersen; C. A. Ekere; J. J. Williams; J. E. Freeman; G. H. Campbell; Miss L. V. Hodgson; J. C. H. Hall; Mrs. A. A. Adesigbin; J. S. Ogunlesi; A. G. Keay; T. N. Redford; C. Carter; R. M. Elphick; D. J. Mills; A. K. Wareham; N. C. Kay; E. W. Allen; S. O. Bisiriyu; J. W. Court; W. N. Okezie; T. M. Hagan; A. P. Waters; A. Long; T. J. Drabble; C. O. Taiwo. Scale A.
Chief Education Officers—Dr. A. M. McMath; Miss U. M. Orme. Scale C.3.
Lecturer in Arabic Studies—C. E. J. Whitting. £1,200.
Lecturers—Lt.-Col. R. J. Smith, M.B.E.; W. A. Perkins. Scale A.
Senior Agricultural Education Officer—G. N. Herington. Scale A (Upper Segment).
Rural Education Officers—R. J. Newberry; A. Mackenzie; J. M. Arthurs. Scale A.
Accountant—B. J. E. Morpew. Scale B.
Chief Inspector (Technical)—W. H. Thorp. £1,200.
Principal, Technical Institute—Cmdr. R. Gillion. £1,150.
Superintendent, Trade Workshops—T. Nuttall. £1,075.
Principal, Ex-Servicemen's Training School—Lt.-Col. G. A. Henderson, M.B.E. £1,075.
Senior Education Officers (Technical)—L. A. Holloway, O.B.E., D.C.M., E.D.; N. C. James. Scale A.
Lecturers—A. S. Taylor; J. Wright; C. V. Trenchard-Murphy; T. B. Child; G. Braithwaite. Scale A.
Assistant Lecturer—G. N. Bott. Scale C.1, 2, 3.
Welfare Officer—C. C. Willis. Scale C.1, 2, 3.
Principal, Women's Training Centre—Mrs. E. D. Mather. Scale C.2.3.
Lecturer—C. J. Potter. Scale A.

ELECTRICITY
Electrical Engineer-in-Chief—J. O. Hall, O.B.E. £1,400.
Deputy Electrical Engineer-in-Chief—J. L. King. £1,200.
Senior Electrical Engineers—J. M. Stock; A. R. Rae. £1,100.
Electrical Engineers, Grades I, II, III and IV—H. Jennings; P. K. Mackintosh; H. Batt; T. Maloney; P. M. Beare; C. G. P. Eastgate; D. A. Buss; G. J. Stedman; J. G. Richardson; H. H. Pernice; F. W. Cuer; J. C. Chopping; G. T. Turner; O. O. Coker; A. E. Bailey; J. S. Dingle; C. A. Millard. Scale A.
Mechanical Engineers, Grades I, II, III and IV—R. H. G. Greener, M.B.E.; M. J. Walsh; R. S. Nelson; A. C. M. Chapman; C. W. Motts; V. M. Raine; W. J. Moxon; A. D. Blue; W. G. Conkie; W. B. Anderson; A. McInnes; A. S. Dingle; T. Hool; L. T.
Simpson; D. Muir; T. B. Hogg; R. L. Clother; J. B. Fairley; J. Brown; J. M. Urquhart; A. F. Glen. Scale A.

Mechanical Maintenance Engineers—W. P. Agnew; W. J. Thomson. Scale C.2, 3.

Senior Accountants and Accountants—H. A. Taylor; A. Faul; D. P. Hickey; G. S. Carver; R. H. Parsons. Scale B.

Chief Registrar—V. R. Bairamian. £1,175.

Magistrates—C. N. S. Pollard; F. S. Protheroe; A. Desalu; H. W. N. Betuel; A. A. Ademola; W. H. Hurley; F. O. Lucas; G. F. Dove-Edwin; Capt. J. D. Symes; Ayo Williams; S. P. J. Q. Thomas; A. S. E. Brown; R. W. McD. Crockett; C. J. Hammett; J. A. Smith; N. V. Reed, M.B.E.; W. D. Carew; A. O. Abayomi; P. W. Holm. Scale A.

FORESTRY

Chief Conservator of Forests—F. S. Collier. C.B.E., £1,500.

Deputy Chief Conservator of Forests—D. R. Rosevear. £1,300.

Assistant Chief Conservators of Forests—G. R. G. Kerr; N. S. Stevenson, O.B.E.; J. C. Mallam. £1,200.

Conservators of Forests—F. T. Brand; G. C. R. Gray; J. R. Lockie; S. H. Wimbush. £1,075.

Senior Assistant and Assistant Conservators of Forests—J. E. Taylor; J. Smith; R. F. Clarke-Butler-Cole; D. McIntosh; P. C. Lancaster; M. Robson; J. W. Costello; J. Dundas; K. R. Macdonald; Dr. J. H. MacKay; P. A. Allison; T. F. Betts; P. C. Randell; A. K. F. Nicol; T. N. Wardrop; P. F. Mason; J. C. K. McElderry; L. C. M. Wedderburn; M. E. Dommen; H. B. Burgess, M.C.; T. W. Hussey; T. I. Rees; R. W. J. Keay; J. R. G. Watters; J. G. McQuillen; R. J. Dewar; R. T. Gray; L. G. Cooper; D. I. Shirlaw; W. E. S. Mutch; A. F. Trapper-Lomax; A. N. Pringle; P. J. S. Phillips; J. A. D. Jackson. Scale A.

Forest Engineer—J. D. Scott. Scale A.

Accountant—O. F. Marran. Scale B.

LABOUR

Commissioner of Labour (seconded from Provincial Administration)—E. A. Miller. £1,500.

Deputy Commissioner of Labour—P. H. Cook. £1,200.

Labour Officers—E. A. Lewis; F. C. Nwokedi; T. E. A. Salubi; A. M. Tokunboh; F. G. Downing; R. F. S. Lewis; H. J. Cheseely; E. R. Birch; Lt.-Col. E. W. Rumsey; Major W. G. Stevenson; Major J. B. O. Malcolm; Major C. Spencer Cooke. Scale A.

Trade Union Officer—R. Curry. Scale A.

LANDS

Commissioner of Lands—Vacant. £1,350.

Assistant Commissioner of Lands—W. B. Hewett. £1,075.

Senior Land Officer—E. A. Traveren, M.C. Scale B.

Deputy Registrar of Titles—J. J. Hunter, M.M. Scale B.

Assistant Registrar of Titles—A. J. Grace. Scale B.

Land Officers—C. S. Clover; E. C. Atterbury. Scale B.

Town Planning Officer—C. L. Waide. Scale A.

LEGAL

Attorney-General—G. L. Howe. £1,900.

Solicitor-General—A. Ridehalgh. £1,450.

Senior Crown Counsel—C. W. Reece; S. A. R. McKinstry; R. A. Doherty; J. S. Manyo-Plange, O.B.E. £1,175.

Crown Counsel—N. G. Hay; L. Brett; R. D. Lloyd; G. G. Briggs; D. L. Bates; D. S. Stephens; F. E. Field. Scale A.

MARINE

Director—Capt. A. V. P. Ivey, C.B.E., R.D., R.N.R. £1,500.

Deputy Director—Lt.-Comdr. A. Skinner. £1,200.

Assistant Director of Marine—Lt. Comdr. H. L. Cole, O.B.E. £1,075.

Principal Marine Officer—Lt. Comdr. L. Campton. £1,075.

Senior Marine Officers and Marine Officers—C. J. A. Coughlan; J. F. Blower; A. L. E. Dennis; D. L. Jones; Commander L. E. Foster, R.D., R.N.R.; Lt.-Comdrs. V. W. Martin; F. W. J. Skutil; J. F. A. Bray; Lieutenants M. Price; K. M. Goodman, M.B.E., R.N.R.; Lt.-Comdr. J. W. Wooper, D.S.C.; Lieutenants C. Atkinson, R.N.R.; J. Thornton; G. Jones; L. Collings; A. Simpson; W. J. Knight; A. Macleod; J. C. Davison; T. S. Henderson; K. H. Davies; H. A. McGhee; D. T. S. Sinclair; J. H. Hatfield; W. R. H. Podmore; G. C. Dawson; G. N. Wood; J. L. Laity; Lt. G. E. Rawsthorne, R.D., N.R.; Lt. J. T. Slee, M.B.E., R.N.R.; H. Shaw; P. Titley; J. W. Goulding; Lt. C. C. Gardner, R.D., R.N.R.; Lt. F. H. Layte, R.N.R.; S. A. Ariyo; G. O. Oniwinde; E. A. Olayinka; B. J. Nkoduomo. Scale A.

INLAND REVENUE

Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax—F. G. Lloyd. £1,175.

Assistant Commissioners of Income Tax—F. G. Selby; S. Wilson; T. S. C. McIlwain. £1,050.

Senior Assessment Officers and Assessment Officers—W. E. Davies; F. H. Jones; Capt. G. Wilson; O. A. Omololu, M.B.E.; R. R. Olisa; N. L. Gordon; I. I. Owoaje. Scale B.

JUDICIAL

Chief Justice—Sir John Verity. £2,400.

Senior Puisne Judge—F. H. Baker. £1,650.

Second Puisne Judge—Vacant. £1,500.

Third Puisne Judge—C. G. Ames. £1,500.

Fourth Puisne Judge—Vacant. £1,500.

Puisne Judges—O. Jibowu; A. G. B. Manson; H. M. S. Brown; C. T. Abbott; S. B. Rhodes; W. Wells Palmer; G. G. Robinson; F. W. Johnston; E. Hallinan; G. R. Gregg. £1,500.

Puisne Judge (temporary)—W. R. Awunor-Renner. £900.
Superintendent Engineer—Vacant. £1,150.
Principal Engineer—Lt.-Comdr. (E) R. S. Oakley. £1,075.

Senior Engineer and Engineer Officers—Lt.-Comdr. (E) H. E. Jones; R. Arno; W. R. L. Pretty; L. C. Cox; J. Begbie; R. C. MacNab; A. B. Wenlock; H. Sherburn; Lt. (E) J. O. C. Duffy; F. E. Monk, R.I.N.R.; Lt. (E) F. C. Hill; J. G. Taylor; F. R. Muir; G. A. Lomax; J. B. Russell; A. Murray; J. J. Ridley; J. H. C. Caird; R. E. Wootten; J. W. Morris; A. S. D. Walker; E. A. Aileru; N. A. Pearse; G. O. Jones. Sale A.

Naval Architect—J. H. Gillespie. £1,075.
Assistant Naval Architect—L. Macdonald. Scale A.

Senior Storekeeper—H. G. Hillier. Scale C.3.
Chief Accountant—W. R. Skinner. £1,050.
Senior Accountants and Accountants—J. J. Hollist; O. E. Awani; J. A. Lawal; C. W. Shyllon. Scale B.

MARKETING AND EXPORTS

Director—A. H. Young. £1,450 plus £400, non-pensionable.
Assistant Directors—B. G. Owen; R. A. Crofts. £1,200.
Principal Produce Officers—J. F. B. Watling; J. R. Vernon. £1,100.
Shipping Officer—H. A. Maxted. Scale A.
Marketing Officer—J. Young; J. J. Glover. Scale A.
Senior Produce Officers—J. C. Bytheway; N. W. Hardwick; M. C. M. Bridges. Scale C.3.

MEDICAL

Director of Medical Services—G. B. Walker, C.B.E. £1,900.
Deputy Director of Medical Service—R. L. Cheverton. £1,600.
Deputy Directors of Medical Services (Regional)—J. Naudi; C. Wilson. £1,500.
Assistant Directors of Medical Services—G. R. Waller; D. Murray; E. C. Gilles. £1,400.
Administrative Secretary—I. Benazon. Scale A.
Chief Accountant—G. G. Giffard. £1,050.
Accountants—O. Vincent; Major G. F. Turner; T. Briggs. Scale B.
Specialists—I. G. MacGregor; R. G. A. Savage, O.B.E.; K. T. Moir; S. L. A. Manuwa, O.B.E. (hon.); £1,400; T. L. Lawson; G. E. Dodds; R. N. Hall; A. H. Bean; J. T. Sorley; B. S. Jones. £1,300.
Alienist—D. I. Cameron. £1,300.
Senior Medical Officers—J. H. Pottinger; J. R. H. Pasqual; F. L. G. Selby; G. M. M. Menzies; G. Shearer; H. C. Weir; W. Hunter. £1,200.
Medical Officers—D. W. McLaren; D. C. G. Hanlon; D. C. Bell; R. L. J. Le Clezio; W. McLelland; J. A. L. Innes; G. H. Henry; F. W. W. Fox; C. P. Murray; W. Crawford; C. N. Latham; L. E. R. Henshaw; W. T. M. Gilbert; E. N. O'Neill; W. Johnson; L. W. Banks; T. H. Dalrymple; C. P. Campion; J. T. Femi-Pearse; H. A. A. Doherty; K. Sagoe; A. O. Majekodunmi; S. E. Onwu; A. G. W. Branch; E. J. Bury; J. B. Henderson; W. Serle, O.B.E.; A. L. F. Thomson; J. I. Lesh; J. P. Harrison; T. A. Kester; S. O. Awoloyi; G. E. McVitie; B. J. Green; S. H. A. Pearce; A. O. Coker; M. O. Alakija; W. G. Davidson; H. W. Smith; H. M. S. Boardman; F. J. Cauchi; W. Mullen; I. H. Marable; O. B. Alakija; C. M. Norman-Williams; E. N. O. Sodeinde; P. R. Cooper; R. A. B. Dikko; S. O. Franklin; J. Crabb; J. P. Sexton; J. A. B. Nicholson, M.B.E.; F. N. Macnamara; O. D. Macnamara; V. G. Springett; M. A. Majekodunmi; R. Dickie; F. O. Adewole; J. A. Pearce; D. W. Quantrell; F. H. Budden; P. J. L. Roche; G. R. H. Drew; D. J. Amah; J. C. Chartres; O. O. Sotunde; C. C. A. Adeniyi-Jones; G. F. Houston; V. W. J. Hetreed; J. J. Elbert, M.B.E.; Miss M. Calvert; Miss M. C. Keter; N. Leitch; P. B. Stones; R. M. Winston; B. M. Nicol, O.B.E., T.D.; H. M. Archibald, M.B.E.; J. E. Furness; J. D. Manning; Miss E. Scott; J. Gemmell; I. K. Hay; Major G. C. V. O'Driscoll; A. L. McKnight; E. S. Harvery; M. T. Read; R. H. Strudwick; Miss M. E. Holness; Miss J. B. Falconer; F. G. Williams; H. G. McQuade; J. C. Groves; C. M. Jones; J. Haworth; S. C. Ferguson; A. O. Sasegbon; A. Kerettez; I. G. Thomson; J. J. Phillips; G. W. Moore; O. N. Okonkwo; J. St. G. Warman; J. A. Ademiluyi; P. V. N. Ezekwe; E. E. Bassey; F. O. Esiri; J. W. Okekpe; E. C. Erokuwu; M. P. Otolorin; S. E. Imoke; A. O. Wilkey; F. Salawu; P. Frischman; T. P. Binns; J. J. O'Dwyer; H. B. Gibson; J. Toner; Miss E. W. Brett; H. W. Woolner; R. N. Onyemelukwe; A. J. Williams; J. J. Barton; G. C. Butler; A. J. D. Farquharson; N. M. B. Dean; A. Zahra. Scale A.

Assistant Director of Laboratory Service—Vacant. £1,400.
Medical Entomologist—L. J. Chwatt. Scale A.
Dentists—C. D. Cunningham; W. H. R. Still; G. L. Sharp; J. Jackson; Miss E. B. Skinner; T. W. J. Black; R. S. Yates; G. C. Hodgson. Scale A.
Senior Storekeeper—L. C. Bell. Scale B.
Medical Storekeeper and Inspecting Pharmacists—R. A. Wright; I. N. Acraman.
Matron—M. A. L. Gummow, M.B.E. £690.
Senior Nursing Sisters—M. P. Steele, M.B.E.; M. Bennetts; L. Burwash; E. G. B. Archer; H. A. Cain; G. L. Patten; M. E. E. Clelland; E. A. Cooper; C. M. Harris. Scale N.
Senior Health Officers—N. E. W. Anderson; T. H. L. Montgomery. £1,200.
Medical Officers of Health—C. E. C. Nunns; E. Bradbury; V. F. Forbes-Winslow; W. C. Smith. Scale A.
Dermatologist—D. J. Freshwater. Scale A.
Senior Pathologist—D. A. Cannon. £1,200.

Medical and Pharmacy Schools

Principal of the Medical School—Vacant. £1,200.
Assistant Principal and Lecturer in Physiology—W. E. S. Merrett. Scale A.
Lecturer—W. S. S. Ladell. Scale A.
Superintendent, School of Pharmacy—A. J. Bearman. Scale A.

Yellow Fever Research Institute

Entomologist—F. de Saleo Lachance. Scale A.

Sleeping Sickness Service

Senior Medical Officer-in-Charge—R. D. Harding. £1,200.
Sleeping Sickness Medical Officers—J. L. McLetchie; A. J. Duggan; M. P. Hutchinson. Scale A.
Entomologists—T. A. M. Nash, O.B.E.; R. J. Kernaghan. Scale A.
Senior Sleeping Sickness Control Officers—F. E. Harnett; J. H. C. Hicks. Scale C.3.

Director, West African Institute for Trypanosomiasis Research—Col. H. W. Mulligan. £1,650.

Entomologist—F. L. Vanderplank. Scale A.

Leprosy Control

Senior Leprosy Officer—R. H. Bland. £1,200.

Medical Officers—T. F. Davey, O.B.E.; C. M. Ross; Miss L. M. M. Lengauer; A. S. Garrett; B. Nicholson; M. G. Corcos; K. S. Seal. Scale A.

METEOROLOGICAL SERVICE

Senior Meteorologist—J. R. Clackson. £1,100.

Meteorologists—D. E. Smith; R. B. Stonehouse. Scale A.

MINES

Chief Inspector of Mines—H. A. Cochran. £1,350.

Deputy Chief Inspector of Mines—H. R. Mitchell. £1,150.

Assistant Chief Inspector of Mines—W. P. Gaskell. £1,075.

Senior Inspectors of Mines—R. Patterson; F. A. Cassidy. Scale A.

Inspectors of Mines—Major A. P. A. Robertson, O.B.E., E.D.; J. H. Chalk; Major J. B. Hooper; D. Foord; Major D. E. S. King; L. O’N. Thomson; T. H. G. Cotsworth; R. L. Rodda. Scale A.

MOTOR TRANSPORT AND OIL CONTROL

Controller—W. H. Paul (seconded from Provincial Administration). Scale A.

Deputy Controllers—J. B. Wallace; G. N. Smith; A. B. Farlow; H. L. B. Ridley; G. B. Brown. Scale A.

POLICE

Commissioner of Police—T. V. W. Finlay. £1,500.

Deputy Commissioner of Police—M. K. N. Collens. £1,200.

Assistant Commissioners of Police—R. S. Shuel; A. C. Luck; R. V. D. White. £1,100.

Superintendents—R. H. Maunsell-Eyre; D. L. Hill; J. B. G. Austin; G. A. V. de Boissiere; A. T. G. Trumble; Capt. E. C. Gilbert; R. J. P. McLaughlan; N. M. French; V. D. K. Marley; G. F. Evelyn-Wright; Capt. F. B. Sharp, M.B.E.; Capt. G. M. I. Blackburne, M.C.; E. S. Morgan; R. G. Henderson; C. J. Gilbert; R. T. Mitchelin; S. P. George; J. A. Macdonald; H. Haydock-Wilson; E. S. Sherwood; H. P. G. Hodgkinson; E. S. Philip; Major A. C. C. Peebles; W. R. de la Cour Shirley. Scale B.

Senior Assistant Superintendents and Assistant Superintendents and Cadets—M. T. Williams; J. E. Hodge; N. H. B. Forde; W. G. Syer; D. S. Fountain; E. J. R. Ormiston; A. E. Stafford; N. K. Millett; R. N. Alcock; E. Everett; A. W. de Burgh Sidley; H. J. Armitage; J. G. Heard; L. G. Purkis; R. C. C. Jarrett, B.E.M.; R. H. F. England; A. Cooper; J. T. Ogbolu; R. W. Laverick; G. McGary; L. H. Brown; T. R. Pallett; D. Matheson; W. Ford; A. S. E. Agbabiaka; M. G. Amu; E. A. Oluwole; F. G. Brett; G. A. Kirwan; Major D. B. D. Henchman; N. B. Menzies; Capt. R. P. Rankin; J. S. Bell, D.F.C.; W. H. Taylor; O. P. S. Jones; Capt. H. D. Milling; Major E. C. Bates; Major A. A. Dear; J. R. Swain, B.E.M.; R. H. V. Biles; S. C. Smith, D.F.C.; E. W. Dodd; J. D. Harman; R. A. Brown; G. R. Rudd; Major J. H. K. Pappas; C. G. B. Gidley; Major A. O. Jones; Lieut. L. R. Macdonald; Major A. D. Monkhouse; R. A. Howse; Major L. A. Marsden; G. B. McCaffery; Capt. V. P. Birch; P. G. F. Sewell; G. L. E. Lindow; A. G. Morman; J. K. Abakah; J. T. A. Dixon; W. G. W. Dean; J. M. Egbuson; J. O. Onyekwe; F. B. Williams; J. C. Graves; P. F. Page; J. A. Lapage; A. N. M. Davies; H. J. W. Watkins; R. G. Lock; J. J. O’Sullivan; Major I. F. R. Ramsay. Scale B.

POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS

Director of Posts and Telegraphs—J. A. Gundry. £1,400.

Deputy Director and Engineer-in-Chief—H. A. Smith. £1,200.

Deputy Director, Posts and Accounts—P. A. Courtney. £1,200.

Controller of Posts—R. E. G. Wilkins. £1,100.

Senior Surveyors—W. J. Collison; G. Porter; K. G. W. McArthur; J. Ogg; R. H. Gallagher. Scale B.

Chief Accountant—T. B. Bales. £1,100.

Surveyors and Accountants—S. O. Ogunyemi; F. C. Johnson; M. A. Kuku; G. Money; L. A. Rowe; T. J. Bennett; L. V. Wailes. Scale B.

Surveyors and Assistant Surveyors—S. C. Madezia; S. Lawrie; G. N. Hamilton; A. S. Stubbs; C. N. Aghanya; E. O. Asika; T. R. C. Raikes; W. Patterson; R. W. Corkill, D.F.C.; W. E. Williams; L. W. Taylor; E. M. May; B. R. Secker; E. J. Davies; C. R. Thomas; E. Chesteron. Scale B.

Divisional Surveyors—C. E. Ross; L. R. Langridge. £1,050.

Assistant Engineers-in-Chief—D. Sanderson; T. R. Beckett. £1,100.

Divisional Engineers—D. S. Foulkes-Roberts; R. Groves. £1,075.

Senior Engineers—A. K. Todd; J. W. Jehu; R. W. Stephens. Scale A.

Engineers—J. A. Farrer; A. E. Cheal, M.B.E.; A. Anderson; C. H. L. Parker; F. W. Foster; D. Ackroyd; T. A. Griffiths; Major J. E. Rodgers; W. H. French; A. W. Hanson; Major S. G. Leigh-Morgan; J. Briggs; S. A. Hatfield; K. P. Wilson; G. H. T. Robinson; G. P. Williams; H. C. T. Winfield; R. C. Oje. Scale A.

Superintendent of Workshops—T. K. King. Scale A.

Assistant Superintendents of Workshops—G. H. Neal; Major D. G. Harrison. Scale A.

PRINTING

Government Printer—L. H. Hughes, O.B.E. £1,100.

Deputy Government Printer—R. Freeman. Scale C.3.

PRISONS

Director of Prisons—R. H. Dolan. £1,350.

Deputy Director of Prisons—S. W. Brittain-Long. £1,150.

Inspectors of Prisons—W. C. Dean; H. W. Hayllor; J. A. Brown. Scale B (Upper Segment).
PUBLIC RELATIONS

Public Relations Officer—H. Cooper (seconded from Provincial Administration). £1,350.

Regional Public Relations Officers—Lt.-Col. G. W. P. Thorn, O.B.E.; Capt. G. D. C. Money, M.C. (seconded from Provincial Administration); Mrs. I. H. Howard, Scale A. Assistant Public Relations Officer—J. Stocker, Scale A.

Editor, "Nigeria" and Organizer of Exhibitions—E. H. Duckworth. £1,175.

PUBLIC WORKS

Director of Public Works—R. W. Taylor. £1,750.

Deputy Director—A. McDonald. £1,400.

Deputy Directors, Regional—W. H. Jackson, M.C., O.B.E.; R. Rodger; C. E. Thorpe. £1,350.

Assistant Directors—E. Wall, M.C.; J. M. Sleigh; F. C. Haslam, O.B.E.; D. S. Bulbin; K. P. Humpidge; J. W. Tallentire. £1,200.

Senior Executive Engineers—C. E. Andreae; K. Sadler; G. R. Hasselhuhn; W. A. Anderson; W. A. Dow; D. G. Blyth; D. H. Lawson; A. G. Boorman; E. Iliff. £1,100.

Executive Engineers, Grades I-IV—J. A. Henry; R. E. G. Ferguson; W. Dempster; P. I. O'Connor; J. B. R. Pedder; G. C. Stubbs; T. W. Shaw; J. Lea; F. H. Woodrow; C. W. M. Williams; H. P. Pooley; S. C. Barrie; F. H. Meeres-Young; W. Grant; A. H. Clarke; E. H. Marfleet; A. F. Daldy; G. M. Johnson; E. C. S. Ladd; J. M. Longson; K. Wilson; Major J. W. Stokes; W. D. B. Kingston; D. H. Yarnold; D. Evans; H. C. Garlick; G. D. G. Plummer; R. J. Owens; R. L. Armstrong; A. Williams; Eifion Jones; R. Conway; R. M. Allen; J. G. Kehoe; F. M. Burgess; A. H. Lewis; M. H. Widdows; O. Gibb; A. P. F. Temple; Lt. R. A. P. Leach; W. G. Mahaffy; K. N. Ashton; J. C. Proud; A. G. Skinner, M.B.E.; K. R. Rollinson; E. S. Armitage; C. H. Beach; G. A. Bell; H. Rogers; J. K. Cush; J. M. Bruce; B. H. Bullen; G. P. Manners; T. M. Steven; R. M. Hopkins; M. W. Bryce; W. R. W. Ferguson; I. R. E. Iweka; J. R. Hughes; N. L. Mitchell; B. I. Brough; W. S. Adams. Scale A.

Waterworks Engineers—J. G. Campbell; C. I. Wilks. Scale A.

Chief Accountant—J. A. Ellis. £1,100.

Senior Accountant—D. S. Johnson. Scale B.

Accountants—C. M. Johnson; N. Hughes; K. E. Meare; E. A. Ogunbiyi; F. E. Enderson; A. T. Kemp; D. Longmuir. Scale B.

Mechanical Engineers—Lt.-Col. F. C. Kup; A. McInnes; G. T. Paul; C. W. C. Turner; H. T. Hill. Scale A.

Works Manager—R. C. S. Fowler. Scale A (Upper Segment).

Senior Architect—T. Scott. £1,100.

Architects—W. S. Corlett; G. R. Stout; J. E. Evans; W. S. A. Prew; J. L'Hope; C. S. M. Davidson. Scale A.

Chief Storekeeper—F. W. Bailey. Scale B (Upper Segment).

RAILWAY

General Manager—D. C. Woodward. £1,900.

Principal Assistant to General Manager—N. C. A. Levy. £1,100.

Assistant General Manager (Operating)—G. O. Urion. £1,400.

Assistant General Manager (Staff and Organisation)—A. Busby, O.B.E. £1,300.

Principal Assistant General Manager (Staff and Organisation)—H. F. P. Plumridge. £1,100.

Establishment Officers—R. E. Jenkins; E. Slee. Grade I, Scale B (Upper Segment).

Labour Officer—W. A. Powell. Scale A.

Chief Accountant—S. T. Crampton. £1,300.

Assistant Chief Accountant—F. Sander. £1,100.

Senior Accountants—J. C. Swallow; J. C. Morris; F. R. Duce; C. W. Harvey; J. L. Bomford. Scale B.

Accountants and Assistant Accountants—J. E. Crawley; J. S. Nicholas; R. S. Lane; H. Berry; A. O. Oresanya; L. A. Onojobi; J. B. Shusi; E. F. A. Dada; W. Moore; A. B. S. Daykin; C. H. Bryant; H. J. Phillips; H. J. Broadbent; E. H. Williams; R. C. Currie. Scale B.

Stores Superintendent—W. J. Lardner. £1,150.

Senior Storekeepers—F. G. W. Potter, M.B.E.; C. N. F. Sturrock; C. G. New; F. Ridout. Scale B (Upper Segment).

Traffic and Commercial

Traffic Manager—W. H. Best. £1,400.

Assistant Traffic Manager—T. W. Sharp. £1,200.

District Traffic Superintendents—C. W. Putsey; C. C. Whittington; T. A. Crawford; C. J. Greenway. £1,100.

Senior Assistant Traffic Officers—R. Catverhill; A. R. G. Saunders; J. T. Hardy.

Assistant Traffic Officers—H. J. M. Welsh; J. O. McNab; W. Sandison; G. H. Seaton; F. Darlington; W. B. Gibson; R. H. Wilcox; T. Russell; C. Clarke, M.C.; A. M. Macdiarmid. Scale B.

Road Transport Superintendent—W. Cooke. Scale B.

Assistant Road Transport Officers—L. J. M. Michell; E. S. Donnison. Scale B.

Civil Engineering

Chief Engineer—E. J. B. Gahan. £1,400.

Assistant Chief Engineer—G. S. Dick. £1,200.

District Engineers—N. M. Lewis; C. B. Watson; Lt.-Col. K. M. Steven; R. Bridgman. £1,100.

Senior Assistant Engineers—S. P. Smith; H. R. Guenin. Scale A.

Assistant Engineers—R. B. Hood; G. L. Davies; E. J. Andrews; J. G. Sherry; W. B. Wilkinson; D. A. L. Wallace; H. M. Alexander; H. T. Astley; A. C. Webb; J. W. Chalnder; G. W. Launder; F. G. Joscelyne; I. C. Gillespie; J. M. Lambert; R. Marshall. Scale A.

Engineer i/c Drawing Office—F. A. Collard. Scale A.

Signals Superintendent—W. A. J. Buckingham. Scale C.3.

Mechanical Engineering

Chief Mechanical Engineer—T. B. Welch. £1,400.

Assistant Chief Mechanical Engineer—Vacant. £1,200.

Works Manager—J. W. Duggan. £1,150.

Assistant Works Managers, Grade I—E. W. Shorrocks; A. Macfarlane; F. A. O. Phillips. Scale A.

Carriage and Wagon Superintendent—R. E. Nelson. £1,075.

Assistant Carriage and Wagon Superintendents—L. C. Robins; C. E. Lane. Scale A.

District Locomotive Superintendents—G. Hodge; W. H. J. Moull; G. H. Bransom; J. O. Bannister. £1,100.
Senior Assistant Locomotive Superintendents,
Grade I—V. Baker; F. H. J. Jackel; F. E.
Sheppard. Scale A.

Assistant Locomotive Superintendents—V. F.
Meeson; H. B. Kille; V. Baker. Scale A.

Wharves

Wharf Superintendent—E. E. Wenban. £1,050.
Assistant Wharf Superintendents—S. Kirk;
H. G. James. Scale B.

Statistics

Assistant Statistician—T. C. J. Young. Scale A.

Survey

Director of Surveys—A. P. Mitchell, C.M.G.
£1,350.

Deputy Director of Surveys—A. J. Morley.
£1,150.

Assistant Director of Surveys—H. Isherwood;
Lt.-Col. B. Blanchflower. £1,075.

Senior Surveyors and Surveyors—T. Russell;
E. A. Rothery; M. D. Wimbush, M.B.E.;
Major K. H. Hunter; J. H. Keast; Major
W. G. Wookey; K. M. Sargeant; J. C. Pugh;
S. A. Ishola Bucknor; D. M. MacPhee,
D.S.C.; J. F. Allan Lees. Scale A.

Chief Draughtsman—W. T. Harrington. Scale
C.3.

Chief Lithographer—T. E. Allanson. Scale C.3.

Veterinary

Director—W. G. Beaton. £1,500.

Deputy Director of Veterinary Services—R. S.
Marshall. £1,300.

Assistant Directors—J. H. B. Best; H. A. Hay-
Barclay; J. Morton. £1,200.

Senior Veterinary Officers and Veterinary Officers
—A. W. Hart; G. M. Gates; R. Coulthard;
N. Burke; H. K. Littlewood; J. D. Birkett;
J. McCulloch; E. J. Westcott; E. Dixon;
D. A. W. Walker; R. W. Crowther; G. E. M.
Latimer; A. H. A. Hamilton; K. J. R.
Maclean; G. Calderbank; D. Hill. Scale
A.

Assistant Director of Laboratory Services—
R. W. M. Mettam. £1,200.

Veterinary Research Officer—Vacant. Scale A.

Principal, Veterinary School—Vacant. £1,200.

Veterinary Education Officers—D. E. Macgregor;
J. Dobinson; K. Unsworth; A. L. C. Thorne.
Scale A.

Climate

North Borneo is favoured by a relatively cool
climate for a place situated so near the equator.
The average mean temperatures are as follows:

| Location       | Maximum | Minimum |
|----------------|---------|---------|
| Jesselton      | 88° F.  | 72° F.  |
| Sandakan       | 88°     | 75°     |
| Tambunan (situated in the high land in the
  interior)     | 86°     | 66°     |

The annual rainfall varies from 60 to 180 inches
according to locality. Humidity is relatively high
in most places although there are a few com-
paratively drier belts. The wet season extends
from October to February but the rain is not
incessant, and during the wettest month there are
intervals in which no rain falls and the ground
dries rapidly. The north-east monsoon begins
about the middle of October and continues to the
middle of April. The south-west monsoon lasts
from April till October. Moderately strong gales
are common during the north-east monsoon but
Borneo lies outside the typhoon belt. The wind
is usually light during the south-west monsoon
but short squalls are common in the afternoons
and evenings.

General Description

North Borneo occupies the northern part of
Borneo, the third largest island in the world, and
is bordered on the south-west by Sarawak, and
on the south-east by the new Indonesian State of
East Borneo. The interior of the territory is
mountainous, culminating in Mount Kinabalu,
which is 13,455 feet high and is the highest
mountain in the East Indies. Most of the colony
is densely timbered. On the west coast there is a
narrow coastal plain which supports the main
agricultural and rubber production of the colony.

The main towns are situated on the coast.
These are Jesselton, Kudat, Sandakan, Lahad
Datu, and Tawau. Jesselton is now the capital
of the colony. All these towns have good
harbours.

Labuan, which now forms part of the colony,
is a small island lying three miles off the mainland
commanding the Bay of Brunei, and consisting of
low undulating land. Victoria is the only town
of any size, and it has an excellent well-sheltered
harbour.

Population

The population of the mainland was 270,223 in
1931, which was the year in which the last census
was held. A population check in 1947 for food
control purposes gave a figure of 322,108.

The native population in 1931 was 209,218, of
whom 117,482 were Dusuns who are an agricul-
tural community. Bajaus and Bruneis (fishing
people), Muruts (pagan inland tribes), and Suluks
(migratory coastal people) form the remainder of
the native population. The Chinese, who handle
most of the commercial trade and are responsible
for a considerable amount of rubber planting and
vegetable gardening, numbered 47,799 in 1931.
Since that date they have increased to approxi-
mately 66,000. The total population in 1891 was
only 67,062 so that it has increased fivefold since
then.

Labuan had a population of 8,963 in 1941,
consisting mainly of Malays and Chinese. It has
increased by several hundred since then.

