RHODESIA.*

Rhodesia (so called after the late Right Hon. Cecil J. Rhodes) is the name of the country under the administration of the British South Africa Company, whose principal field of operations was defined in its Charter of Incorporation as "the region of South Africa lying immediately to the north of British Bechuanaland, and to the north and west of the South African Republic, and to the west of the Portuguese Dominions." Of these extensive territories the Company is now responsible for the administration of the following portions:

1. Southern Rhodesia, or the provinces of Mashonaland and Matabeleland.
2. Northern Rhodesia, or the whole of the British sphere lying between the Portuguese Settlements, German East Africa, and the Congo Free State, with the exception of the strip of territory forming the British Central Africa Protectorate. It is divided into two provinces—North-Eastern Rhodesia and North-Western Rhodesia.

I.—SOUTHERN RHODESIA.

The limits of Southern Rhodesia, as defined by the Southern Rhodesia Order in Council, dated 20th October, 1898, are the parts of South Africa bounded by the Portuguese Possessions, by the Transvaal Colony to a point opposite the mouth of the River Shashi, by the River Shashi to its junction with the Tati and Ramaquaban rivers, thence by the Ramaquaban river to its source, thence by the watershed to the Rivers Shashi and Ramaquaban until such watershed strikes the Hunter's Road (called the Pandamantenka Road), thence by that road to the River Zambesi, and by that river to the Portuguese boundary. The said limits include an area of ten miles' radius round Fort Tuli, but exclude the area of the district known as the Tati district defined by the Charter.

II.—NORTHERN RHODESIA.

This territory is divided into two provinces:

(a.) Barotziland-North-Western Rhodesia.
(b.) North-Eastern Rhodesia.

(a.) The limits of Barotziland-North-Western Rhodesia, as defined by the Barotziland-North-Western Rhodesia Order in Council, dated 28th of November, 1899, are the parts of Africa bounded by the River Zambesi, the German South-West Africa Protectorate, the Portuguese possessions,

* The information in this notice is kindly supplied by the British South Africa Company.
the Congo Free State, and the Kafukwe or Loengi River. Such limits further include so much of any territory belonging to the Bashukolumbwe Tribe as may lie east of the Kafukwe or Loengi River.

(b.) The limits of North-Eastern Rhodesia, as defined by the North-Eastern Rhodesia Order in Council, dated 29th January, 1900, are the parts of Africa bounded on the west, by the boundaries of the Congo Free State and of Barotziland-North-Western Rhodesia, as defined in "The Barotziland-North-Western Rhodesia Order in Council, 1899"; on the south by the Kafukwe River and the River Zambesi down to its junction with the Luangwa River, thence by the mid-channel of the Luangwa River northwards to where it is cut by the 16th degree of latitude, and from this point, by the Anglo-Portuguese boundary eastwards to the frontier of the British Central Africa Protectorate; on the east, by the aforesaid frontier; on the north, by the Anglo-German frontier, the south shore of Lake Tanganyika, and the southern frontier of the Congo Free State as far west as Lake Mweru, including the Island of Kilwa in the British sphere.

Area.

The area of Rhodesia is estimated to be about 750,000 square miles, of which Southern Rhodesia is computed to contain about 143,830 square miles.

Up to the 31st March, 1904, the total acreage of farms surveyed in Mashonaland was approximately 8,749,609 English acres, and in Matabeleland 11,975,422 English acres. This, however, does not represent the total amount of surveyed land, as many farms have been surveyed by private owners.

In 1897 a geodetic survey of Southern Rhodesia was initiated under the superintendence of Sir David Gill, K.C.B., H.M. Astronomer at the Cape of Good Hope. The field operations were concluded during August, 1901, the survey being completed to the Zambesi River. The geodetic survey from the Zambesi to Lake Tanganyika was commenced in July, 1903, and is expected to be completed in three years' time.

History.

On the 29th October, 1889, a Royal Charter was granted to the British South Africa Company, conferring upon it large powers of administration to carry out the objects for which it was formed, the principal being to extend northwards the railway and telegraph systems of the Cape Colony and Bechuanaland, to encourage emigration and colonisation, to promote trade and commerce, and to develop and work mineral and other concessions.

Early in 1890 a police force of Europeans was raised and equipped, and in June of that year, after obtaining permission from King Lo Bengula, a pioneer expedition on a large scale was organised to cut a road from a point on the Macloutsie River, a tributary of the Limpopo, through the south-eastern part of Matabeleland into Mashonaland, the objective point of the expedition being Mount Hampden, near which large belts of gold-bearing quartz were known to exist. This point was reached on 12th September, 1890. The pioneers were then disbanded, and, in accordance with the agreement made with them, were allowed to peg off auriferous claims and farms.

In July, 1893, the Matabele made a raid into Mashonaland, and killed several natives living under the Company's protection, near Victoria, when they were attacked and driven back by the Company's police. After an unsuccessful attempt to arrange matters, preparations were made for the invasion of Matabeleland, to anticipate an expected attack on the Bechuanaland Protectorate and Mashonaland. The Company's police and a large force of volunteers and native allies advanced on Bulawayo from the north and east, while the Bechuanaland Police, which had been largely reinforced, advanced with Khama and some 2,000 of his men by way of Tati from the south. Two successful engagements were fought by the Company's forces near Bulawayo, in which the Matabele suffered very severely. The Bechuanaland police were also attacked by a strong force of Matabele, which they repulsed with great loss. Lo Bengula fled, and Bulawayo was occupied, and a force sent in pursuit of the king.

This force was unfortunately divided by the sudden rising of the River Shangani, and Major Wilson with a small party of men were, after a heroic resistance, killed to a man. Arrangements for the future administration of the country were completed by the High Commissioner and Mr. Rhodes on behalf of the Company. Lo Bengula, who was said to be endeavouring to escape across the Zambesi, is reported to have died from small-pox or fever.

At the end of 1895, occurred Dr. Jameson's raid into the Transvaal (see also under Bechuanaland Protectorate), which resulted in measures being taken to give the High Commissioner increased control over the Company's administration, especially the police. These were subsequently embodied in the Southern Rhodesia Order in Council, 1898.

In 1896, owing to a variety of causes, the Matabele broke out in rebellion, and shortly after the Mashonas followed suit. Imperial troops had to be sent to the assistance of the Company's police and volunteers, and it was only after a prolonged struggle that peace was secured.

The rinderpest, which for several years had been devastating Africa, travelling slowly through the continent from north to south, made its first appearance in Matabeleland in February, 1896. The adoption of the drastic regulations which the administration decided to enforce had to some extent checked the progress of the epidemic, when the outbreak of the rebellion put a stop to all precautionary measures.

In March, 1898, a system of compulsory inoculation for rinderpest was established, and the precautions taken have proved very effective. No case has since been recorded, and the disease has been finally stamped out.

From 1897 to 1899 the development of the country advanced rapidly, but the outbreak of the war with the Republics, in October, practically put a stop to progressive work of every kind, and for months the territory was completely cut off from the south.

On the outbreak of hostilities Colonel (now Major-General) Baden-Powell was in supreme command of all the forces in Southern Rhodesia and the Bechuanaland Protectorate. When Mafeking was invested the command of the Rhodesian forces devolved upon Colonel Plumer, who was stationed at Tuli with a force of 450 men. In November, 1899, Martial Law was proclaimed in certain districts in Matabeleland, and, at a later date, in the whole territory, and the Southern Rhodesia Volunteers, to the number of 800, were called out for active service.
At the beginning of January, 1900, Colonel Plumer moved his column to Palachwe and assumed direct command of the troops in the Protectorate, amongst whom were included 600 Volunteers and over 400 men of the British South Africa Police. Mafeking was successfully relieved by Mahon and Plumer's united columns on the 17th May.

In the early part of 1900 a force of 5,000 men, consisting of Australian, New Zealand and Canadian Volunteers, and English Yeomanry, was despatched to Rhodesia, via Beira, under the command of General Sir Frederick Carrington. This force was sent to the front as speedily as possible, two companies of Militia Infantry being retained at Bulawayo as a garrison.

The Administration of Southern Rhodesia estimated that the number of men contributed by Rhodesia was approximately 1,500, being at least 12½ per cent. of the European population. Despatches which have been published bear testimony to the good work performed by the Volunteers, Police, and the Rhodesia Regiment, and they have also gained the special approbation of the late Commander-in-Chief.

The attitude of the natives throughout the war was most satisfactory, and, although in some districts there appeared signs of unrest, it was confined to attempts by discontented natives to work up the feelings of the people who were, however, not affected by them to any appreciable degree.

Martial Law in Southern Rhodesia was withdrawn on the 26th July, 1902.

Since the close of the war Rhodesia has again been making rapid progress in the development of the country, withstandin the general depression prevailing throughout South Africa. Steady and marked improvement is reported in all branches of agriculture. The output of gold for the year 1905 has largely exceeded that for the previous year. The main line of railway to the far north has been completed for about 200 miles north of the Zambesi River, and construction is rapidly proceeding in the direction of Lake Tanganyika.

**Constitution.**

In 1888 that portion of Rhodesia now known as Southern Rhodesia was declared to be within the British sphere of influence, and on the 29th October, 1889, a Royal Charter was granted to the British South Africa Company, conferring upon it large powers of administration to carry out the objects for which it was formed.

An Extraordinary General Meeting of the shareholders of the British South Africa Company, held on the 14th of December, 1899, a resolution was passed agreeing to accept the amendments proposed by Her Majesty's Government to be made in the original Charter of the Company by the Supplemental Charter, and a further resolution was passed approving certain alterations in the original Deed of Settlement of the Company. These resolutions were confirmed at a further Extraordinary General Meeting, held on the 10th of January, 1900.

The Constitution of Southern Rhodesia, originally laid down by the Charter, was subsequently amended by the Orders in Council of the 9th May, 1891; 30th July, 1891; and 18th July, 1894, the latter being known as the "Matabeland Order in Council." This Order was revoked by the Southern Rhodesia Order in Council of 1898, which provides for the Administration of the Territory, Legislation, the Preservation of Peace and Order, the Constitution of Courts of Justice, and Native Administration. This Order was amended by the Southern Rhodesia Order in Council of the 16th February, 1903. Under the Order of 1898 there is a Resident Commissioner appointed by the Secretary of State. To assist the Administrator there is an Executive Council, composed of not less than four members appointed by the Company, with the approval of the Secretary of State. A member of the Executive Council holds office for a period of three years, unless sooner removed by the Company, but is eligible for re-appointment at the end of each term of office. There is also a Legislative Council, consisting of the Administrator (President), seven nominees of the Company approved by the Secretary of State, and seven members elected by the Registered Voters. The Resident Commissioner sits on both Executive and Legislative Councils, but without a vote. Ordinances passed by the Legislative Council, when assented to by the High Commissioner, take effect immediately, but, within a year, may be disallowed by the Secretary of State. The duration of each Legislative Council is 3 years. The first Legislative Council was elected in 1899. The number of Registered Voters in 1904 was 5,303.

By a Proclamation, dated 10th June, 1891, the laws of the Cape Colony, passed prior to that date, were adopted for and are to be administered in Rhodesia as far as the circumstances of the country will permit. The laws of the Cape Colony passed subsequent to that date do not apply to Rhodesia.

For the Administration of Justice there is a High Court with civil and criminal jurisdiction, the judges being appointed by the Secretary of State, on the nomination of the Company. In the districts there are Magistrates' Courts. Appeals from the High Court lie to the Supreme Court of the Cape of Good Hope, and thence to the Privy Council.

The administrative systems of North-Eastern and North-Western Rhodesia are prescribed by the "North-Eastern Rhodesia Order in Council, 1900," and the "Barotziland-North-Western Rhodesia Order in Council, 1899," under which the administrations of those territories are placed under the control of H.M. Commissioner and Consul-General for British Central Africa and the High Commissioner for South Africa respectively.

**Local Government.**

Salisbury and Bulawayo were constituted municipalities in October, 1897. Sanitary Boards are appointed for the other principal townships.

**Native Administration.**

The Native Department of Southern Rhodesia is administered by the Secretary for Native Affairs, the duties of the office at the present time being undertaken by the Administrator. The two provinces are each under the control of a Chief Native Commissioner (who is responsible to the Secretary for Native Affairs), and are divided into native districts, 18 in Mashonaland and 10 in Matabeleland. Each district is in charge of a Native Commissioner or Assistant Native Commissioner, who is appointed by the Administrator, with the approval of the High Commissioner, as laid down in the "Southern Rhodesia Order in
Council, 1898,” and whose duties are defined by the High Commissioner’s Proclamation, No. 4 of 1902 (Promulgated 2nd December, 1904).

Formerly the natives were scattered throughout the country, but now land has been reserved for tribal settlements which is suitable for their agricultural and pastoral requirements.

The only tax imposed upon them is an annual hut-tax of £1. Excellent provision has been made for those who go to work at the mines. Compounds have been erected and hospitals provided at most of the mines, which are periodically visited by Government Inspectors; their contracts are supervised by officials who see that the terms are faithfully fulfilled, and in the event of injustice they have their remedy in a court of law under the “Master’s and Servant’s Ordinance.” A native at the mines can easily earn from 30s. to £3 a month with food and lodging.

**Defence.**

The defence of Southern Rhodesia devolves upon the British South Africa Police and Volunteer Force. The whole of the Military Police Force is under the direct control of the High Commissioner, although paid for by the Company.

On the 5th October, 1903, the 2nd and 3rd Divisions of the Police were amalgamated, and on the 31st March, 1905, the strength of the Police Force was: officers, 40; N.C.O.’s and men, 408; Native Police, 456. At the same date the strength of the Volunteer Force was: Eastern Division (Mashonaland), officers and men, 766; Western Division (Matabeleland), 1,356, including cadets, of whom there were 235.

The strength of the Southern Rhodesia Constabulary on the 31st March, 1905, was 168.

Under an arrangement with the Imperial Government the military forces of British Central Africa are available for the territorial defence of North-Eastern Rhodesia.

**Climate.**

The Rhodesian plateau lies at an altitude of from 3,000 to 6,000 feet above sea level. Broadly speaking, the year has two divisions, the wet and the dry season. The early rains of the wet season (which is the summer) gradually appear towards the end of October, and increase in frequency and force until about the end of April. From May to September there is practically no rain. Taking into consideration the vast extent of the territory the climate naturally varies. In the highlands it is very healthy and bracing. Formerly, in the low-lying districts, malarial fever was very prevalent, but with the opening up of the country, better housing and food, it is rapidly disappearing.

From medical statistics for the year 1904-5, it appears that out of 1,845 European cases treated in the hospitals only 476 per cent. proved fatal. The summer is not oppressively hot, nor is the winter very cold. The average shown by the maximum and minimum thermometers in the shade at the principal towns, during 1904-1905, was: Salisbury, max. 76°1, min. 51°2; Umtali, max. 76°9, min. 55°7; Bulawayo, max. 77°7, min. 53°8; Melsetter, max. 69°4; Victoria, max. 80°7; Gwelo, max. 78°7, min. 52°3; Hopefountain, max. 78°2, min. 53°1; Empandeni, max. 81°2, min. 52°8; Belingwe, max. 76°6, min. 51°3.

**Rainfall.**

| Town       | Rainfall |
|------------|----------|
| Salisbury  | 33·12 inches |
| Umtali     | 26·87 "    |
| Melsetter  | 36·72 "    |
| Victoria   | 19·36 "    |
| Bulawayo   | 17·70 "    |
| Gwelo      | 18·81 "    |
| Tuli       | 13·02 "    |
| Hopefountain | 23·01 "   |
| Empandeni  | 17·81 "    |
| Belingwe   | 19·16 "    |
| Chishawasha | 38·67 "    |

There are hospitals at Salisbury, Bulawayo, Umtali, Victoria, and Gwelo, each supplied with a complete staff of doctors and nurses. Cottage hospitals have also been erected in the districts of Hartley, Enkeldoorn, Selukwe, Gwanda, and Filabusi to meet the wants of the mining centres.

**Population.**

A census for Southern Rhodesia was taken on the 17th April, 1904, showing the number of Europeans to be 12,623 (Mashonaland, 4,917; Matabeleland, 7,706). On the 31st March, 1905, the native population was estimated by Native Commissioners to be 595,000 (Mashonaland, 392,000; Matabeleland, 203,000). There were also 2,000 Colonial Natives and Asiatics.

**Chief Towns.**

The chief towns of Southern Rhodesia are Salisbury (the capital), Umtali, Victoria, Enkeldoorn, and Melsetter in Mashonaland; and Bulawayo, Gwelo, and Tuli in Matabeleland. Townships have also been formed at Rusapi, Gwanda, Selukwe, and Hartley.

Salisbury, the seat of the Government, has a white population of 2,681. The town stands 4,700 feet above sea level. Branches of the Standard Bank, Bank of Africa, and African Banking Corporation have been established. It was constituted a municipality in 1897, and at the close of 1904 the assessed value of rateable property stood at 1,098,295/. Salisbury is connected with the port of Beira by rail, a distance of 374 miles.

Bulawayo is the commercial centre of Southern Rhodesia, with a white population of 5,995, and stands 4,469 feet above the sea level. It was constituted a municipality in 1897, and the assessed valuation of rateable property in 1904 stood at 1,778,132/. Branches of the same banks as at Salisbury have been opened. There is a municipal hospital, which is one of the finest in South Africa. The town is on the main line of railway from Cape Town to the far north, and is distant from Cape Town 1,302 miles.

**Railways.**

The Bechuanaland Railways (now Rhodesia Railways, Limited) reached Bulawayo on the 19th October, 1897, and was formally opened on the 4th November. An extension of the Beira Railway from Umtali reached Salisbury on the 1st May, 1899, and was opened on the 22nd May. On the 1st August, 1900, the widening of the gauge of the Beira Railway to 3 feet 6 inches, the standard gauge of South Africa, was completed. On the 6th October, 1902, the line was completed between Salisbury and Bulawayo, a distance of
301 miles, thus establishing through communication between Cape Town and Beira (over 2,000 miles). The line passes through the mining districts of Hartley, Sebakwe, Gwelo, Bembezi, etc. The railway from Bulawayo to the Victoria Falls (282 miles) on the River Zambesi was completed on the 25th April, 1904, and the extension northward has been already constructed over 200 miles from the Falls. The river is crossed by a bridge 600 feet long, 30 feet wide, and about 420 feet above the level of the water. The structure was formally opened by Sir G. H. Darwin, K.C.B., President of the British Association, on the 12th September, 1905. A line from Bulawayo to the Gwanda district (104 miles), to open up the gold and coal areas to the south-east, has been constructed, and a line, with a 2-feet gauge, from Salisbury to the Ayrshire Mine in the Lomagundu district (84 miles), was opened for traffic on the 15th October, 1902. A line from Gwelo to Selukwe (24 miles) was completed in August last, and one from Salisbury to Mazoe (about 30 miles) is being surveyed. A line to the Matopos, where Mr. Rhodes is buried, was opened for traffic on November 1st, 1903.

Lands and Agriculture.

Any person who is desirous of obtaining a grant of land in Southern Rhodesia should make written application to the Surveyor-General, Salisbury, who will, if satisfied that the applicant is in a position to beneficially occupy the land, and to carry on bond fide farming operations, recommend the application to His Honour the Administrator, for the issue of a permit. Grantees are required to occupy the land under such permit for a period of five years, in a bond fide and beneficial manner, either with cultivation or with stock. The rent to be paid during the term of occupation is fixed at 5 per cent. of the purchase price. The annual quit-rent or permanent rent, payable after the five years' term, is fixed at the rate of 1s. per 25 morgen or part thereof. The purchase money may be stated to average 9d. an acre in Mashonaland and 1s. 6d. an acre in Matabeleland. These charges are subject to slight increase where the land applied for is considered to be specially well situated or of exceptional value. The average size of farms in Mashonaland is 1,500 morgen (approximately 3,000 acres). Matabeleland farms are, as a rule, twice this size.

Survey fees, averaging 30l. for 1,500 morgen farms, and 40l. in the case of 3,000 morgen farms, are payable upon issue of the permit. In the case of settlers introducing stock and agricultural implements, payment of survey fees will be allowed to extend over a period of twelve months. Settlers bringing their own cattle with them to the port of Beira will, at present, be granted a special rate by the railway company of 2l. per head over the railway, and 5s. per head for sheep, in truckloads.

Since the pacification of the country considerable tracts of land have been placed under cultivation, and fresh stock is being imported. It may be said that virtually the whole of Southern Rhodesia is well watered, and adapted for stock-raising and for agriculture. Cattle generally do very well in all parts. Sheep and goats thrive in many parts and will do better after the grass is fed down. Horses are more uncertain, and are liable to horse-sickness unless properly stabled. Pigs thrive well, and, so far, have never shown disease. Poultry and eggs always command a ready sale at remunerative prices. Throughout the country the conditions of soil and climate are suitable for all kinds of European cereals and vegetables, and, in addition, many trees, shrubs and plants peculiar to sub-tropical regions can be successfully cultivated. Mealies, Kaffir-corn, and other native cereals grow well in the rainy season without irrigation. Tobacco culture has now passed the experimental stage, and the further development of the industry is receiving special attention. The plant grows luxuriantly, and a considerable acreage is under cultivation. Cotton is indigenous to the country, and experiments with foreign seed have been carried out with great success. Rubber is also indigenous. The vines and trees were ruined by the methods adopted by the natives for its extraction, but efforts are being made to replant, and the industry will rapidly develop. It has been satisfactorily demonstrated that several fibre plants, such as ramie, sisal, hemp, flax, and jute can be successfully grown. Large fruit orchards have been planted, and all fruit trees thrive. Grapes, figs, oranges, peaches, almonds, walnuts, lemons, bananas, quinces, apricots, apples, and pomegranates of good quality are produced. The sale of dairy produce is a profitable industry in the neighbourhood of the towns.

Roads.

On March 31st, 1904, the total mileage of roads in Southern Rhodesia was about 3,750 miles, including about 650 miles of cross roads in mining and farming districts. In these figures roads which have fallen into disuse owing to railway construction are not included. The total expenditure on all roads and river crossings during the year 1904-5 was £6,972.

Posts and Telegraphs.

The mails from the United Kingdom to Southern Rhodesia are conveyed by the mail steamers of the subsidised Union-Castle Company, weekly, between Southampton and Table Bay. From Cape Town they are conveyed by train to Bulawayo in three days. There are also daily mail and passenger trains from Cape Town to Bulawayo performing the journey in four days. From Bulawayo to Salisbury the mails are conveyed three times a week, the journey occupying about 24 hours. There are two mail and passenger trains weekly between Salisbury and Beira, the time occupied on the journey being thirty hours.

The outlying districts of Southern Rhodesia are served by mail coaches and carts, but the mails to the less important districts are conveyed by native runners.

North-Western Rhodesia (Barotsealand) receives its mails via Bulawayo and Salisbury. They are conveyed from Bulawayo to the Victoria Falls by train, and to the several postal stations in the territory by native runners.

The North-Eastern Rhodesia postal service, which formerly was carried out via Chinde, is now performed via the Salisbury-Feira route, although mail matter may still be forwarded to Fort Jameson and other stations in the territory by the Chinde and Blantyre route. The time occupied in the transmission of the mails between Fort Jameson and the United Kingdom is now about six weeks.

On the 31st of March, 1905, 60 post offices were open in Southern Rhodesia, at 17 of
which Money Order business was transacted. Telegraph Money Orders are also exchanged between Money Order Offices in Rhodesia and with Money Order Offices in the Cape Colony, Natal, Transvaal, and the Orange River Colony.

The rate for inland letters is 1d. per ½ oz., for letters to other parts of South Africa 1d. per ½ oz., and for letters for places over-sea 2½d. per ½ oz.

The Rhodesian Telegraph and Telephone system extends from Ramathlabama, on the northern border of Cape Colony, to Ujiji in German East Africa, and comprises 7,093 miles of wire, on 3,963 miles of poles. The section of line from Umtali to Ujiji is the property of the African Transcontinental Telegraph Company.

On the 31st March, 1905, 83 telegraph offices were open. The rate for Inland telegrams is 1d. per word; for telegrams exchanged between Rhodesia and other parts of South Africa, 2½d. per word; and for cabledgrams to Europe is 2s. 8½d. per word. Telegrams from Europe and from South Africa, for the Portuguese province of Manica and Sofala, Portuguese East Africa (including Chinde and Quelimane), the Nyassaland Protectorate, North Eastern Rhodesia, and for German East Africa, all pass over the Rhodesian lines.

Telephone exchanges are in operation at Bulawayo, Salisbury, Umtali, Gwelo, and Selukwe, the length of wire being 286 miles.

Post Office Savings Banks were established on 1st January, 1905. Up to 30th November, 1905, the amount deposited was 32,148L, and the amount withdrawn was 11,469L. 20,000L has already been invested in Trustee Securities.

Customs.

Prior to the 1st August, 1899, no duties were leviable upon goods entering Southern Rhodesia. On that date the Customs Ordinance came into operation, and continued in force till August, 1903, when, as a result of the South African Customs Conference, the necessary Ordinance empowering Southern Rhodesia to enter the newly formed Customs Union was unanimously passed by the Legislative Council. During the eight months ending 31st March, 1900, the net amount of Customs duty received was 39,639L, the value of dutiable goods imported was 83,961L, and non-dutiable goods 186,835L. During the year ending 31st March, 1901, the net amount of duty received was 91,430L; the value of the dutiable goods being 322,522L, and non-dutiable goods 899,446L. During the year ended 31st March, 1902, the net amount of duty received was 124,634L, 15s. 10d.; the value of dutiable goods was 498,888L, and non-dutiable goods 944,165L. During the year ended 31st March, 1903, the net amount of duty received was 128,673L; the value of the dutiable goods being 495,240L, and non-dutiable goods 1,363,329L. During the year ended 31st March, 1904, the amount of duty collected was 128,383L; and the value of imports 1,576,620L. In 1904-5 the duty collected was 105,934L, and the value of the imports 951,698L. An Ordinance was promulgated on 1st October, 1901, imposing a duty of 6s. per gallon on spirits manufactured in South Africa, and imported into the Territory. Another Ordinance was also promulgated upon the same date imposing an excise duty of a similar amount upon spirits manufactured within Southern Rhodesia.

Minerals.

GOLD.—That gold was obtained from Rhodesia many centuries before the Christian Era is evidenced from the innumerable "ancient workings," the ruins of temples and forts supposed to date from the time of the Himyarites and Phoenicians, and the discovery of gold beads, gold plates, fine chains, wire, nails, etc. From the occupation of the country in 1890 by the British South Africa Company when the European population amounted to about 200 persons, consisting of the pioneers and a few officials, up to September, 1898, the gold produced only amounted to 6,470 ounces. Since that date, however, the output has been steadily increasing, notwithstanding the unparalleled difficulties which were encountered in the shape of war, rinderpest, etc. Owing to the rapid progress of railway construction, transport of machinery is now not so difficult. Some of the mines began to crush in September, 1898, and the following table shows the progress made:

| Year | Amount |
|------|--------|
| 1897 | 215    |
| 1898 | 16,706 |
| 1899 | 56,742 |
| 1900 | 85,366 |
| 1901 | 172,035|
| 1902 | 194,170|
| 1903 | 231,872|
| 1904 | 267,737|
| 1905 | 407,048|

On the 31st March, 1905, the total crushing power was equal to 900 stamps and 1 tube mill, and over 150 stamps were in course of erection or were proposed to be erected.

COAL.—For some years past coal has been known to exist in several districts, but it is only recently that the value of the deposits has been definitely ascertained. In the Wankie District, 212 miles from Bulawayo, and 70 miles from the Victoria Falls on the River Zambesi, a coal bed of vast extent has been disclosed. The result of careful and systematic examination shows that as regards quality the best of the coal is only from 4 to 6 per cent. inferior to Welsh steam coal of similar quality, and the worst portion is superior to any coal hitherto discovered in Africa. During the year 1904 the output amounted to nearly 60,000 tons, and for the year 1905 to 97,191 tons. Other promising discoveries of coal have been made in the Victoria, Tuli, Lomagundi and Sebungwe districts, but, so far, sufficient exploratory work has not been carried out to admit of a final opinion being pronounced as to their precise value.

The output of silver during 1904 was 70,142 oz., and for the year 1905 89,278 oz. The output of lead in 1904 amounted to 449 tons, and in 1905 to 570 tons.

COPPER.—Discoveries of copper have been reported in the Victoria, Lomagundi and Melssetter districts in Southern Rhodesia, and highly promising deposits have been disclosed both in North-Eastern and North-Western Rhodesia. In the year ending 31st March, 1906, the number of copper claims registered amounted to 3,943.

Education.

In 1899 an Education Ordinance, providing for grants-in-aid of both voluntary and undenominational schools, was passed, and satisfactory progress
has been made in placing the educational system of the country on an improved basis. On the 31st March, 1905, there were in Southern Rhodesia fourteen state-aided schools. The total number of children in Government-aided schools was 596 as against 630 for the previous year. The small decrease is more than compensated for by the number of children now attending an increased number of private schools. The total net expenditure amounted to £6,435. There are three native schools aided by the Government.

### Revenue and Expenditure (Southern Rhodesia).

| Year       | Revenue   | Expenditure |
|------------|-----------|-------------|
| 1898–1899  | £269,085  | £761,934    |
| 1899–1900  | £325,180  | £702,400    |
| 1900–1901  | £406,467  | £633,849    |
| 1901–1902  | £435,256  | £710,563    |
| 1902–1903  | £497,782  | £770,108    |
| 1903–1904  | £434,754  | £736,571    |
| 1904–1905  | £453,173  | £590,139    |
| 1905–1906* | £518,550  | £531,349    |

Full details as to the administration of Rhodesia, and as to climate and products, with routes to and from Rhodesia, can be obtained from the recently issued reports, to be had on application at the offices of the British South Africa Company, 2, London Wall Buildings, London, E.C.

### Board of Directors of the British South Africa Company.

His Grace the Duke of Abercorn, K.G., President.
Alfred Beit, Esq., Vice-President.
The Right Hon. Lord Gifford, V.C.
Sir Lewis Michell.
J. Rochfort Maguire, Esq.
P. Lyttelton Gell, Esq.
Dr. L. S. Jameson, C.B.
H. Birchenough, Esq., C.M.G.
Manager, H. Wilson Fox, Esq.
Secretary, Douglas E. Brodie.
Assistant Secretary, A. P. Millar.
Registrar, R. C. Bolton.

### Mining Department.

Resident Engineer in Rhodesia, E. H. Garthwaite.

### Railways.

Consulting Engineers in London, Sir Douglas Fox and Partners.
Consulting Engineer in Rhodesia, Sir Charles Metcalfe, Bart.

### Southern Rhodesia Administration.

Administrator, Sir W. H. Milton, K.C.M.G.
Imperial Resident Commissioner and Commandant-General, Lieut.-Col. R. Chester-Master.

### Executive Council.

The Administrator.
H.M. Resident Commissioner.
Sir T. C. Scanlen, K.C.M.G., Additional Law Officer.
F. J. Newton, C.M.G., Treasurer.
H. H. Castens, Chief Secretary.
C. H. Tredgold, LL.B., Attorney-General.

### Legislative Council.

The Administrator, President.
H.M. Resident Commissioner.
Sir T. C. Scanlen, K.C.M.G., Additional Law Officer.
F. J. Newton, C.M.G., Treasurer.
H. H. Castens, Chief Secretary.
C. H. Tredgold, LL.B., Attorney-General.
J. H. Kennedy, Master of the High Court.
E. Ross Townsend, Secretary for Agriculture.
E. W. S. Montagu, Secretary for Mines.
Col. Raleigh Grey, C.M.G., Northern.
E. E. Homan,
F. R. Myburgh, Eastern.
H. Longden, Midland.
G. S. D. Forbes, D.S.O.
W. H. Haddon,
Col. W. Napier, C.M.G., Western.
Clerk of Councils, J. Robertson.

### Chief Secretary's Department.

Chief Secretary, H. H. Castens.
Under-Secretary, A. B. Rankine.
Controller of Customs, E. C. Baxter.
Medical Director, A. M. Fleming, C.M.G., M.B.
C.M. Edin.
Postmaster-General, G. H. Eyre.
Auditor, P. D. L. Fynn.
Inspector of Schools, G. Duthie.

### Native Affairs Department.

Secretary for Native Affairs, Sir W. H. Milton, K.C.M.G.
Chief Native Commissioner, Mashonaland, W. S. Taberer (acting).
Chief Native Commissioner, Matabeleland, H. J. Taylor.

### Native Commissioners.

#### Mashonaland:

Charter, J. W. Posselt
Hartley, S. N. G. Jackson
Lomogundi, W. E. Scott
North Mazoe, E. J.
Eardley-Mare *
South Mazoe, E. T.
Kenny
M'toko, F. R. Byron (acting)
Marundella, E. W.
Morris
Makoni, A. R. Ross

#### Matabeleland:

Gwanda-Tuli, J. P. L.
de Smidt
Selungwe-Mafungabusi, W. E. Farrer
Instiza, A. A. Campbell
Belingwe, H. H. de Laessoe (acting)
Selukwe, F. G. Elliot
Umtali, T. B. Hulley
Melsetter, L. C. Meredith
Victoria, A. Drew
N'Danga, D. H. Moodie
Guru, H. C. K. Fynn
Chilimanzai, E. G. Howman
Chibi, P. Forrestall
Salisbury, Inspector R. Nesbitt, V.C. (acting)
M'ruwa, W. Edwards
Inyanga, T. B. Hulley

Matobo, H. M. Jackson (acting)
Bulilima-Mangwe, W. E. Thomas
Guelo, C. T. Stuart
Bubi, R. Lanning
Wankie, H. F. Greer *
Fingo Location, C. G. Fynn

### Legal Department.

Attorney-General, C. H. Tredgold, LL.B.
Secretary to the Law Department, C. Bayley.
Solicitor-General (Bulawayo), J. D. McKenzie.
Additional Law Officer, Sir Thomas C. Scanlen, K.C.M.G.
Registrar of Deeds, Companies, and Patents (Salisbury), G. J. King.
Registrar of Deeds and Companies (Bulawayo), A. R. Tonge.

* Assistant Native Commissioner.
High Court.

Senior Judge, J. Vintcent, B.A., LL.B.
Puisme Judge, J. P. Watermeyer, B.A., LL.B.
Master, Registrar and Sheriff, J. H. Kennedy.

District Courts and Offices.

Mashonaland.

Salisbury:
Civil Commissioner, G. W. Farmaner.
Magistrate, E. A. L. Brailsford.
Assistant Magistrate, R. McIlwaine.

Enkeldoorn and Charter:
Assistant Magistrate, W. R. Shand.

Umtali:
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, R. H. Myburgh.

Melsetter:
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, W. M. Longden.

Victoria:
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, E. J. Lawlor (acting).

Matabeleland:

Bulawayo:
Civil Commissioner, H. Marshall Hole.
Magistrate, L. Powys-Jones.
Assistant Magistrates, C. J. R. Gardiner, W. E. Thomas, H. M. G. Jackson, A. A. Campbell, R. Lanning, and H. H. de Laessoe.

Gwelo:
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, P. G. Smith.
Assistant Magistrate, E. J. Lawlor.

Gwanda-Tuli:
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, J. P. L. de Smidt.

Mines and Public Works Department.

Secretary for Mines, E. W. S. Montagu.
Mining Commissioners, N. Macglashan, G. J. Bowen, C. D. Fleming, O. H. Olgilvie, A. A. Heyman, F. S. Brown.
Secretary for Public Works, H. Ashmead.

Lands.

Surveyor-General, W. I. Atherstone.
Secretary, F. W. Inskipp.

Agriculture.

Secretary, E. Ross Townsend.
Veterinary Surgeons, C. E. Gray (Chief Veterinary Surgeon), J. M. Sinclair, J. J. Gorman, G. S. Bruce, and E. M. Jarvis.

Cape Town Agency.

Agent, J. A. Stevens.
Accountant, W. Olive.

North-Eastern Rhodesia.

Administrator, Robert Codrington, Esq.
Secretary, R. Godle.
Judge of the High Court, L. P. Beaufort, M.A., B.C.L.
Principal Medical Officer, J. C. Spillane.

District Courts and Offices.

East Loangwa:
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, C. P. Chesnaye.

West Loangwa:
Civil and Native Commissioner and Magistrate, H. Croal.

Tanganyika:
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, H. C. Marshall.

North Loangwa and Awemba:
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, C. McKinnon.

Mrewu:
Civil and Native Commissioner, G. C. P. Lyons.

Luapula:
Civil and Native Commissioner, H. T. Harrington.

North-Western Rhodesia.

Administrator, R. T. Coryndon, Esq.
Secretary, F. V. Worthington.
Commandant, Barotse Native Police, Colonel Colin Harding, C.M.G.
Magistrate, H. Rangeley.
Accountant (acting), C. S. Parsons.
Medical Officer, E. T. Clayton, L.R.C.P., L.R.C.S.
Mines Dept., J. A. D. Hawksley.

District Commissioners:
Butoka—W. Hazell (acting).
Barotse—F. Aitkins.
Falls—F. W. Sykes.
Kasempa—F. C. Macaulay.
Kafue—A. C. Anderson.
Mashukulumbe—A. Dale.
Loangwa—P. H. Selby.

Southern Nigeria.

[Steps are being taken to amalgamate Lagos and S. Nigeria.]

Situation and Boundaries.

(See Map under Lagos).

The Protectorate of Southern Nigeria is bounded on the North-west by the Colony of Lagos, on the North by the Protectorate of Northern Nigeria, and on the North-east and East by the German territories of the Kameruns.

The Lagos boundary starts from a point on the beach of the Bight of Benin in latitude 5° 52' 20" and longitude 4° 57' 18" about a mile S.E. of the village of Omoluma. The boundary follows a straight line to the junction of the Lagos and the Adabassa Creeks, continuing up the middle of the Opofange, Kokotoro, Jojoboko, Kofuturo (or Siluko) Creeks, thence up the middle of the Ofuso-Wens River to its junction with the Owena River, thence up the middle of the Ofuso River to its junction with its tributary the Abere, thence in a straight line to the junction of the Akure and Usho main road with the Ogbesi River.

From this point the Northern Nigeria boundary follows a line from the villages Usho, Amurin to Emure-Ile, thence to Egpeni and along the Ore road through the village of Orea and Suada to the point where that road crosses the Ogbesere stream. It then follows the course of the Ogbesere stream to its junction with the Owese River and then the course of the Owese River to the point where it crosses the Ipele-Iduani road. From here the boundary runs in a north-easterly direction through Iduani and Yaiya, thence easterly to Ilodugun and Ogpe, thence southerly through Itwa to Ake and on to Ushoka, from which village it proceeds in a south-easterly direction to Shebe and on through Yadu to Aushi; thence through Jattu to Uyere and in an easterly direction through Aiota, Afana, Gufu and Goronu to Fuga. From Fuga the line runs to Yanegpode, and thence in an easterly
direction to a point about ten miles north-east of Idah on the Niger. The exact boundary north of Idah and affecting the territory immediately east of the Niger is in course of delimitation.

The boundary continues in a straight line slightly north of the 7th parallel of latitude to a point near Ashuku on the Anglo-German frontier as laid down in the Convention of 1893. From this point the boundary runs in a straight line to the rapids on the Cross River and thence to the Rio del Rey on the Gulf of Guinea.

The area of the Protectorate is estimated at 51,500 square miles.

The numerous rivers, creeks and estuaries in this part of the West African coast have received the name of the "Oil Rivers," from the fact of their producing the bulk of the palm oil, which constitutes the chief export of West Africa. The Niger has formed a huge delta with a coast line of over 200 miles from the mouth of the Benin river to Opobo. The coast district here for a long distance, varying from 20 to 40 miles inland, is a mere network of "creeks" and "Islands." Into this delta several other considerable rivers empty themselves, the chief being on the west, the Benin with its affluents, the Osse, Ologi, Jameson and Ethiope, and on the east the Imo with its affluents the Otaminne and Azumine.

The chief mouths of the Niger are at the Forcados estuary, communicating with Warri, Sapele and Benin, the Nun mouth at Akassa, and at Brass.

The Engenni, New Calabar, and Opobo Rivers enter the sea by the broad estuaries known as the Sombrero, the New Calabar, the Bonny, the Andoni, and the Opobo Rivers, and drain a fertile, undulating country, watered by numerous little brooks, and with a rich soil free from marsh, and where cattle appear to thrive.

Further east is the Calabar estuary, mainly formed by the great Cross River, some 400 or 500 miles in length, which drains, with its affluents the Calabar, Aguia, Akpayfe and the Ndiana Rivers, the high mountain ranges running north-west from the Kamerun mountains to the hills round the confluence of the Niger and the Benue.

Inhabitants.

The inhabitants are typical negroes, and though now divided into several distinct tribes, appear to have had a common origin. Among the most prominent tribes are the Jekri, occupying the lower part of the Benin, and closely allied to the Yorubas; the Ijos, occupying the part of the delta east of the Middleton, and south of the Warri and of the Ibo country; the Ibos, occupying the lower Niger just above the delta, and extending to the Cross River, where they join the Akuna-kunas, being an industrious agricultural people, with fine herds of cattle; and the Efiks and "Kwas" in the Calabar region.

History.

The British Protectorate of the Niger districts (Oil Rivers Protectorate) was announced in the London Gazette of 5th June, 1885. It extended along the West Coast of Africa from a point on the shore of the Bight of Benin about ten miles north-west of the Benin River to the Rio del Rey on the Gulf of Guinea.

The part between the Forcados River and the Nun mouth of the Niger was included in the territories administered by the Royal Niger Company under their Charter of 10th July, 1886.

By an Order in Council, dated the 13th May, 1893, the Protectorate was extended under the name of the Niger Coast Protectorate, and an administration established under Sir Claude MacDonald, K.C.M.G., K.C.B., as Imperial Commissioner and Consul-General; he was succeeded in this office, in 1896, by Sir R. Moor, K.C.M.G.

On the taking over of the territories of the Royal Niger Company in 1900 the Niger Coast Protectorate was extended so as to include the part lying between Idah on the Niger and the Coast, which had been formerly administered by the Company, and the Protectorate of Southern Nigeria was constituted under an Order in Council, dated the 27th December, 1899, the administration being transferred from the Foreign to Colonial Office.

Sir Walter Egerton, K.C.M.G., High Commissioner, has recently been also appointed Governor of Lagos, and the amalgamation of that Colony with the Protectorate of Southern Nigeria is under consideration.

Constitution and Administration.

Under the Order in Council of 27th December, 1899, the Imperial Commissioner and Consul-General of the Niger Coast Protectorate assumed the administration of Southern Nigeria under the title of High Commissioner, with power to enact laws styled proclamations. There is no Legislative or Executive Council. On matters affecting the interests of merchants, chambers of commerce are consulted and given opportunities of expressing their views before the enactment of proclamations directly affecting commercial undertakings.

The Protectorate, for purposes of administration, is divided into five Divisions, each presided over by a Divisional Commissioner. The Divisions are further sub-divided into Districts, presided over by District Commissioners or Assistant District Commissioners, who, in addition to their judicial duties, are the executive officers in their Districts. The Divisions and Districts are as follows:

Eastern Division.—Districts.—Bonny, Opobo, Brass, Degema, Owerri, Abe, Ekpaffia.

Western Division.—Districts.—Forcados, Sapele, Warri, Ifon, Benin City, Ishan, Agbor, Kwale.

Central Division.—Districts.—Aboh, Asaba, Onippu, Oka.

Calabar Division.—Districts.—Calabar, Eket, Ikot-Ekpene, Aka.

Cross River Division.—Districts.—Afikpo, Bende, Obubura Hill, Aro-Chuku, Okuni.

The Military Force consists of the Southern Nigeria Regiment of the West African Frontier Force. The total strength of the Regiment is 46 officers, 23 British non-commissioned officers, and 1,351 rank and file. Twelve stations, in addition to headquarters, are garrisoned by troops.

The Protectorate maintains a Civil Police Force, consisting of 1 inspector, 2 assistant inspectors, and 304 rank and file. They are distributed over the Protectorate, and relieve the detachments of the Southern Nigeria Regiment in districts which are sufficiently settled not to require military occupation.
Law and Justice.

The Law in force is contained in the Proclamations enacted by the High Commissioner, and Civil and Criminal procedure are regulated by the Supreme Court Proclamations (1900, 1902 and 1903), the Criminal Procedure Proclamation (1900), the Commissioners' Proclamations (1900 and 1903), the Police Magistrate Proclamation (1903), and the Native Courts Proclamations (1901 and 1903).

The Supreme Court, presided over by the Chief Justice, holds Assizes at the principal centres. There are District Courts, with limited Criminal and Civil Jurisdiction, presided over by Commissioners, and there is a Police Magistrate's Court with similar jurisdiction at Calabar.

The Supreme Court decides appeals from the inferior Courts in Civil matters, and the Chief Justice has a power of revision of the decision of Commissioners in criminal cases. The Chief Justice and Puisne Judge are, ex officio, Puisne Judges of the Supreme Courts of Northern Nigeria and Lagos, while the Chief Justices and Puisne Judges of Northern Nigeria and Lagos are, ex officio, Puisne Judges of the Supreme Court of Southern Nigeria.

Native Courts have been established throughout the districts. The District Commissioner sits as President of the Court, and in his absence the Assistant District Commissioner. Under the Native Courts Proclamation, 1901, the Courts have, subject to the approval of the High Commissioner, power to make Rules providing for the peace, good order and welfare of the Natives. Native law is administered in all the Courts in so far as it is not incompatible with any Statute and not repugnant to natural justice.

Domestic Slavery.

A system of domestic slavery was, until recently, universally recognised—the father or the mother having the power of sale, according to their position in the "House." The evil was aggravated by that peculiar development of the system known as "pawning," under which a debtor could temporarily liquidate the claims of his creditor by handing over as security either himself or a child or a slave, and by the power which the creditor possessed in turn of handing over the security to his own creditors, the same "pawn" passing through the hands of numberless creditors. By the Slave-dealing Proclamation of 1901 the buying, selling, or pawning of slaves is prohibited under heavy penalties. The system has been effectually abolished in the more settled districts, and is gradually being eradicated from those under less effective control. The Native House Rule Proclamation, 1901, provides for the maintenance of the authority, which is vested in Heads of Houses by Native law and Custom, over members of the House. The law enforces the submission of members to the Head of the House, and upon the latter the performance of those obligations towards the members which native law and custom imposes.

Vital Statistics and Climate.

The estimated European population is 500, of whom 157 were officials. The mortality rate was 38 per 1,000 in 1904.

Sickness is most prevalent during the months of May, July, August, and October.

The average rainfall in 1904 for the 4 stations at which records were kept was 146.87 inches. The average mean temperature at Calabar was 90.59°; Bonny, 81.51°; Sapele, 79.35°; Benin, 76.97°; and Asaba, 77.74°.

Trade.

The principal articles of export continue to be palm oil and palm kernels, rubber, lumber, ivory, ebony, and ground-nuts. The quantity and value of these articles which were exported in 1904 are shown in the following table:

| Articles          | Quantity       | Value |
|-------------------|----------------|-------|
| Cocoa             | 366,726 lbs.   | £4,969 0 5 |
| Ebony             | 321 tons       | 1,179 11 6 |
| Fibre             | 6,547 pkgs.    | 3,949 12 4 |
| Ground Nuts       | 15,414 cwt.    | 4,998 17 2 |
| Ivory             | 11,763 lbs.    | 3,468 15 5 |
| Lumber (Native)   | 642,365 cubic ft. | 30,506 13 1 |
| (Timber)          |                |       |
| Palm Kernels      | 70,806 tons    | 600,677 0 3 |
| Palm Oil          | 12,696,056 Imp.Gs. | 709,346 0 0 |
| Rubber            | 2,474,865 lbs. | 159,300 9 6 |

The export duty on timber brought in 11,300£, and the lumber trade promises to develop into an important and lucrative industry.

There is an ad valorem duty of 10 per cent. on all articles imported into the Protectorate save those liable to specific duty and those exempted under the Customs Tariff Proclamation.

Efforts are being made to open up the trade of the Cross River, and specially favourable terms, in the way of loans and other facilities, have been offered to pioneers. It is pleasing to record that several applications to secure these terms have been made, and it is hoped that before very long the practical exploitation of the trade of this region will be a fait accompli.

Means of Communication.

There is regular communication with Europe by the steamers of the British and African Steam Navigation Company and the African Steamship Company. There is a fortnightly service between Liverpool and Forcados, Bonny and Calabar. The steamers leave Liverpool on alternate Saturdays, and call at Monrovia, Axim, Sekondi, Cape Coast, Accra, and Lagos. On the intervening Saturdays there is a service between Liverpool and Forcados. The time occupied in the voyage from Liverpool to Calabar is 20 days. These Companies also maintain intermediate services from London, Liverpool and Hamburg to Calabar, Bonny, Opobo, Brass, Akassa, Forcados, Warri, and Sapele.

Steamers of the German Woermann Line run from Calabar to Lagos in connection with that Company's Express Service between Lagos and Southampton. On the outward voyage there is no direct communication between Lagos and Calabar. Intermediate services are also maintained by the Woermann Line between Hamburg and the ports of the Protectorate.

The Niger is navigable to the Northern Nigeria Boundary for small ocean-going steamers during the months of June, July, August and September, and at other times for shallow-draught stern-wheel steamers and launches. Under the direction of the Government a Transport Department for the conveyance of passengers and cargo at fixed rates has been working on the Niger since 1902. The distance from Forcados to Idah, the Southern Nigeria boundary on the Niger, is 307 miles.

The Cross River is navigable up to and beyond the German boundary during the wet season by
stern-wheel steamers and launches, but during the dry season mails and Government cargo can only be conveyed by means of canoes. The distance from Calabar to Ossidinge beyond the German boundary is about 242 miles. A system of regular transport for passengers and cargo at fixed rates has been inaugurated.

Chief Towns.

Duke Town, or Calabar, on the river of the same name, is about 5 miles above its junction with the Cross River, and is the headquarters of the administration, with a population of about 15,000. A Presbyterian mission is established there. Creek Town, 4 miles beyond, is also an important place, population about 5,000.

Near the mouth of the Opobo River is the town of the same name built by Ja Ja, and about 40 or 50 miles inland near the same river is Bende, a great Ju Ju centre. Bonny Town, 8 miles from the sea, on the left bank of the Bonny, is a station of the Church Missionary Society, and contains several European establishments. There is also a European settlement at the mouth of the Brass, possessing a very fine church, presented by one of the native chiefs.

Benin City, some 60 miles up the river of the name, is a large town of 40,000 or 50,000 inhabitants. It was formerly the seat of a powerful theocracy of fetish priests, and famous for its human sacrifices. It was taken in 1897, in the circumstances stated below, and is now a thriving trading centre, with a British Resident and administrative staff; it is also a military post. The trading station in Benin River is situated about 8 miles from the bar, lying open to the sea-breeze, though sandflies and mosquitoes abound.

In Jan., 1897, a peaceful mission on its way to the King of Benin was massacred in the bush, and a force of native troops and bluejackets had to be sent to punish the Binis. The expedition was completely successful, the king's forces being defeated, and the king himself driven to take refuge in the bush. The king was afterwards captured, and is now in exile at Old Calabar.

Post and Telegraph.

The Protectorate is included in the Postal Union. Foreign Money Order and Parcels Post systems are in operation with the United Kingdom, Northern Nigeria, Lagos, Gold Coast, Sierra Leone and Gambia. The maximum amount for which Money Orders may be drawn has been increased from 10l. to 40l. There is also an inland Money Order system. A system for the insurance of letters up to a maximum of 60l. has been inaugurated. The total number of letters, postcards, books and sample packets dealt with during 1904 amounted to 812,431, and that of parcels to 15,384. The total receipts from Money Orders were 4,462l. 10s. 5d.

During the year 1904 the inland telegraph system was inaugurated by the opening of stations at Benin, Bonny, Calabar, Egwanga, Eket and Forcados. The total amount expended on 31st December, 1904, was 27,734l. 14s. 7d., and the total length of these lines 1812 miles.

The principal line is from Calabar to Bonny, a distance of 117½ miles.

The other line is from Forcados to Lagos boundary, a distance of 64 miles. At the boundary it meets a line from Lagos. This Lagos-Forcados line was opened for traffic during the year, but has proved most unreliable owing to cable faults, damage done to the air line by the sea, and by the collapse of the posts supporting it in the treacherous mangrove mud. Large inland extensions which will render the upkeep of this line unnecessary are now in course of construction.

The rate is ld. a word, with a minimum charge of 1s.

Education.

The system of education provides for primary, secondary, and intermediate schools, High Schools, and technical schools. Grants are awarded to "assisted" schools. The management and supervision of district schools are vested in local committees of management subject to the directions of the Board.

During 1904 Government Schools were established at Aro Chuku, Asseh and Aboh with the assistance of local chiefs, and under the scheme of local contributions in vogue. Girls' schools were established in connection with the Government schools at Warri and Sapele.

There is a High School (the Hope Waddell Training Institution) at Calabar, under the management of the United Presbyterian Free Church of Scotland. This school is partly financed by Government on certain conditions.

The buildings of the Government Intermediate School at Bonny were completed early in 1905. This school has a technical and industrial department where pupils are taught carpentering, coopering and other crafts.

The Roman Catholic Mission has extended its sphere of work on the Niger, and has erected a boys' school at Calabar, work in which is progressing favourably.

In addition to the above a large number of schools is planted by the Church Missionary Society, the Niger Delta Pastorate Mission, the Primitive Methodist Mission, and the Onitsha Industrial Mission.

Currency and Banking.

The currency and legal tender is British sterling. A small importation of the Imperial bronze coinage has been made but at present there appears to be no inclination on the part of the natives to adopt it, the circulation being extremely small.

The native currency of brass rods and manillas is accepted as legal tender in native markets in which they were current previous to the introduction of the Native Currency Proclamation (1902), the rates of exchange being for Brass Rods 4 to 1s., Atorine Manillas 16 to 1s., for Awirawu Manillas 6 to 1s., for Abbie or Prorine Manillas, 12 to 1s. and Ama-Ogono or Town Manillas, 24 to 1s., and for Percule Manillas 4 to 1s. In the Calabar and Cross River districts there are also in circulation copper wires, known as "Citims," the rates of exchange being 20 to 3d. (one brass rod) or 80 to 1s. Cowries are still used as currency in some parts of the Protectorate, but further importation is prohibited.

Specie amounting to 222,892l. 3s. 2d. was imported in 1904, of which only 26,892l. 3s. 2d. was imported by mercantile firms, the balance of 196,000l. being required by the Government of Northern Nigeria.

A large proportion of the specie imported for Northern Nigeria filters into the hands of the firms trading on the Niger, and eventually into Southern Nigeria.

The Bank of Nigeria, Limited, has branches at Calabar and Burutu.
Statistics.

Finance.

Year. Revenue. Expenditure.

£ £

1886-6 155,513 145,044
1896-7 112,440 128,411
1897-8 153,181 121,900
1898-9 169,667 146,751
1899-1900 164,108 176,140
1900-1 380,894 306,192
1901-2 361,815 331,396
1902-3 440,809 456,293
1903-4 470,606 477,755
1904-5 550,232 516,395

Imports. Exports.

From U.K. Total. To U.K. Total.

£ £ £ £

1894-5 581,230 739,864 463,172 825,099
1895-6 575,448 750,975 538,637 844,333
1896-7 563,291 656,977 546,466 785,605
1897-8 504,802 639,698 497,589 750,223
1898-9 583,067 728,639 500,367 774,647
1899- 597,998 725,798 531,088 888,954
1900 927,906 1,115,583 672,900 1,133,604
1901 1,072,962 1,297,116 798,693 1,253,706
1902 1,004,958 1,246,480 820,057 1,264,696
1903 1,228,959 1,492,748 922,658 1,431,984
1904 1,416,664 1,792,468 1,079,544 1,718,717

Shipping (Steam).

Total tonnage entered, 1904, 536,094; cleared, 534,596.

High Commissioners since 1900.

1900 Sir R. D. R. Moor, K.C.M.G.
1900 Col. H. L. Gallwey, C.M.G., D.S.O., Admin.
1901 Sir R. D. R. Moor, K.C.M.G.
1901 L. Probyn, C.M.G., Admin.
1902-3 Sir R. D. R. Moor, K.C.M.G.
1903 L. Probyn, C.M.G., Admin.
1903-4 W. F. Widenham Fosbery, Esq., Admin.
1904 W. Egerton, C.M.G.
1905-6 J. J. Thorburn, Admin.

High Commissioner's Office.

High Commissioner, Sir W. Egerton, K.C.M.G., 3,000l., and 1,000l. duty allowance. (Is also Governor of Lagos. Half of emoluments paid by each administration.)

Private Secretary, O. J. W. Weld, 300l.
Chief Clerk, M. C. Hansen, 150l. to 240l.
1st Class Clerk, J. W. Bruce, 120l. to 150l.
2nd Class Clerk, J. Case, 90l. to 120l.
4th Class Clerk, C. A. Pyne, 70l. to 90l.

Secretariat.

Secretary (vacant), 1,200l. and 240l. duty allowance.
Chief Assistant Secretary, H. Bedwell, 600l. to 800l.
2nd Assistant Secretary, J. Middleton, 500l.
3rd Assistant Secretaries, G. G. Bell, 450l., J. St. V. Hand, G. A. I. Bosanquet, 300l. to 400l.
Native Assistant, J. Heward-Mills, 200l. to 300l.
Chief Clerk, S. T. Jones, 150l. to 240l.
Senior Clerk, J. H. Holdbrook, 120l. to 180l.
1st Class Clerk, (vacant), 120l. to 150l.
2nd Class Clerks, H. K. Paul, R. Hamilton, C. S. Brown, S. P. Wilkey, 90l. to 120l.
3rd ditto T. M. A. Solomon, N. J. B. Wilkinson, M. E. L. Jones, C. W. Domingo, 80l. to 100l.

3rd Class Clerks, A. E. Vanderpuye, C. E. W. Bannerman, W. Inyan, 70l. to 90l.
5th ditto H. M. Garshong, S. R. B. Harfner, W. A. Blankson, 60l. to 80l.
6th ditto J. E. Andrew, G. R. King, A. B. Fynn, 50l. to 70l.
1 Travelling Supervisor of Native Courts, J. F. Rotimi, 175l.
Commercial Intelligence Officer, C. A. Birtwistle, 500l. (half salary paid by Lagos Government).

Political and Administrative Department.

2 Senior Divisional Commissioners, W. F. W. Fosbery, C.M.G., F. S. James, C.M.G., 800l. to 900l.
2 Junior Divisional Commissioners, A. G. B. Harcourt, W. E. B. Copland-Crawford, 600l. to 800l.
4 Travelling Commissioners, A. A. Whitehouse, F. R. Winn-Sampson, A. A. Chichester, 1 vacancy, 550l.
21 District Commissioners, C. E. Harrison, W. A. C. Cockburn, W. Ross-Brown, R. A. Roberta, H. M. Douglas, E. A. Simpson-Gray, J. Watt, R. D. N. Raikes, F. E. G. Johnson, C. A. Wordsworth, C. R. Palmer, W. S. Boyle, A. W. Biddell, A. C. Douglas, A. R. E. Holt, D. E. Price, H. F. Pryce, E. D. Simpson, W. C. Syer, 500l. each; one appointed under vacancy for Travelling Commissioner, and 50l. personal allowance to Mr. C. E. Harrison.
50 Assistant District Commissioners, G. O. M. Cheke, C. Partridge, S. W. Sproston, J. Davidson, J. M. Binny, J. H. Dyer, E. Dayrell, W. W. Stubbs, E. C. Crewe-Read, O. S. Crewe-Read, H. B. Mansfield, T. D. Maxwell, H. P. Chamley, E. L. Chute, H. Lemarchand, R. W. Bird, T. A. Airey, R. Hargrove, A. E. Hanson, T. W. Dann, R. B. Brooks, J. C. Cotton, P. H. A. Grant, A. R. Mytton, R. C. Layton, J. H. M. Whitehead, G. J. O'Connell, T. E. M. Lawson, M. L. Tew, B. G. F. Garnett, D. W. Jackson, H. O. Swanston, E. W. P. Uniacke, W. H. Kerans, H. S. Gladstone, R. M. Heron, F. A. Phillips, F. Hives, G. A. S. Williams, C. A. Ferguson, A. Profeit, C. C. Pyke, C. W. Todd, J. Craven, F. M. Leigh-Lye, H. O. L. Rawles, F. K. Fortescue, F. Sinclair, R. H. Syer, P. A. Talbot, A. H. de Kairtzow, 300l. to 400l. each.
4th Class Clerk, Calabar, J. S. Larnyoh, 70l. to 90l.
Agent for Native Affairs, R. Henshaw, 70l. to 90l., and 30l. per annum allowance from Native Court Funds.
Transport Clerk, Calabar, I. S. Clarke, 90l. to 120l.
Storekeeper, Culobar, J. E. Aikens, 90l. to 120l.
Assistant Transport Clerk and Storekeeper, J. A. Finch, 70l. to 90l.
District Clerks and Storekeepers, G. T. Brown, 80l. to 90l.; M. Davies, D. J. Ridley, J. T. Randle, 80l. to 100l.; W. Daniel, A. D. Rhobe, G. H. Thomas, G. A. Amavi, J. A. Daniel, R. Marshall, F. D. Spencer, E. V. Akron, 60l. to 80l.
Interpreters, G. Allison, 84l.; M. Benner, 72l.; G. Yellow, 72l.; J. Mfon, 50l.; J. Magaji, 47l.; H. Toby, 40l.; J. Arewa, 36l.; S. Bruce, 60l.; P. James, 48l.; J. Cobhan, 48l.; R. Alder, J. Olley, S. Okenne, E. Davies, 24l. each; M. Wilfred, 18l.
Judicial Department.

Chief Justice, H. G. Kelly, 1,200l., and 200l. duty allowance.
2 Puise Judges, J. Winkfield, 900l.; A. H. Marshall, 800l., and 160l. duty allowance.
1 Police Magistrate, R. T. Orpen, 500l. to 600l.
Chief Clerk, E. M. Ensuai, 150l. to 240l.
1 2nd Class Clerk (vacant), 90l. to 120l.
3 3rd ditto, D. N. Abadu, N. J. Nunoo, J. E. Yanney, 80l. to 100l.
2 6th ditto, J. R. M. Quartey, J. E. Jack, 50l. to 70l.

Legal Department.

Solicitor-General, J. E. Green, 700l., and 140l. duty allowance.
1 2nd Class Clerk, C. J. During, 90l. to 120l.
1 3rd Class Clerk, M. J. Johnson, 80l. to 100l.
1 5th Class Clerk, A. D. Grant, 60l. to 80l.

Survey Department.

Superintendent of Surveys, Capt. A. J. Woodroffe, R.E., 887l.
Assistant ditto, Lieut. J. G. Hearson, R.E., 691l.
1 Native Survey Officer, E. A. M. Plange, 120l.
1 Pay and Camp Clerk, R. E. Ali, 60l.

Treasury Department.

Treasurer, C. E. Dale, 700l. to 900l., and 100l. duty pay.
Chief Assistant Treasurer, J. P. Smartt, 600l. to 700l.
Assistant Treasurers, A. M. Gilchrist, 350l. to 500l.; E. P. Austin, W. M. Steele, 300l. to 400l.
Native Assistant Treasurer, E. B. Addy, 200l. to 300l.
Chief Clerk, H. H. Leigh, 150l. to 240l.
Senior Clerk, P. J. C. Thomas, 120l. to 180l.
4 1st Class Clerks, J. G. Richter, G. E. Odamatey, J. H. Blankson, J. E. Sackey, 120l. to 150l.
4 2nd Class Clerks, H. W. Thomas, J. A. Martins, 2 vacancies, 90l. to 120l.
5 3rd Class Clerks, A. Holdbrook, E. W. Addy, V. Vanderpuye, J. C. Scott, J. D. Garshong, 80l. to 100l.
7 4th Class Clerks, W. B. Hagan, J. Sackeyfio, C. C. Bruce, F. H. Dawson, J. A. N. Thompson, S. D. Branche, D. O. Dosumu, 70l. to 90l.
6 5th Class Clerks, E. Ojuya, G. B. Wood, W. A. Cobham, R. J. Myers, C. J. Macfoy, J. B. Solomou, 60l. to 80l.
5 6th Class Clerks, N. Okon, C. B. Jones, J. Ockiya, J. D. Allen, 1 vacancy, 50l. to 70l.

Customs Department.

Collector of Customs, H. L. Searle, 600l. to 800l., and 100l. duty pay.
Assistant ditto, S. C. O. Pontifex, 500l.
3 1st Class European Supervisors, T. F. Burrowes, H. Earnshaw, J. F. Marshall, 300l. to 400l.
3 2nd ditto, D. Milne Stewart, F. A. Clinch, 1 vacancy, 300l.
1 Native Assistant, C. Bright-Davies, 200l. to 300l.
Chief Clerk, S. J. R. Thomas, 150l. to 240l.
Senior Clerk, S. E. Thorpe, 120l. to 150l.
9 1st Class Officers, G. L. John, W. Adams, J. Jones Williams, H. E. Golley, A. Benka-Coker, K. Gepi-Attee, P. H. Gage, J. E. Paul, 1 vacancy, 120l. to 150l.
16 2nd Class Officers, A. E. Macfoy, C. W. Willberforce, G. F. Spiff, D. Leigh, T. E. Spiff, J. A. F. McCauley, J. C. Davies, S. E. Benjamin, O. L. R. Bicaise, J. Maddy, O. A. Walker, H. R. A. Harper, J. H. Smith, I. B. Annan, 2 vacancies, 90l. to 120l.
17 3rd Class Officers, C. E. J. Ashley, J. B. Walcott, S. A. John, A. Tepowa, S. A. K. Wilson, B. C. Acquah, G. R. Coker, A. Menson, T. A. Dublin, J. A. Augustua, S. A. Christian, R. B. Jumbo, H. B. Brown, S. J. Shidi, A. Mensah, A. V. A. Cole, 1 vacancy, 80l. to 100l.
17 4th Class Officers, J. O. Thomas, H. A. Otu, R. B. Quah, A. D. Fine-Country, Z. P. Thorpe, C. G. Stober, A. S. Jones, A. H. Elliott, N. J. Gage, S. O. Johnson, W. S. Lisk, J. C. Lisak, P. B. Ammissah, J. B. Hagan (I.) A. S. Johnson, 2 vacancies, 70l. to 90l.
13 5th Class Officers, S. R. Taylor, S. C. Bell, G. A. Banigo, C. N. Williams, I. W. Fouchee, J. S. Allison, N. O. C. George, W. C. Domingo, M. Solomon, T. A. Johnson, G. G. Crankson, N. W. Smartt, J. R. Pinto, 60l. to 80l.

Postal and Telegraphs Department.

Postmaster-General, H. L. Searle, 100l. duty allowance.
Superintendent of Telegraphs, P. B. Lawson, 500l. to 600l.
5 Inspectors of Telegraphs, J. F. Dyson, H. T. Bowker-Booker, 300l.; R. Heape, J. Anderson, F. J. Hughes, 240l. to 300l.
1 Native Assistant, S. F. King, 200l. to 300l.
1 Senior Clerk, A. G. Nylander, 120l. to 180l.
1 Native Sub-Inspector of Telegraphs, A. C. B. Wright, 120l. to 150l.
5 1st Class Clerks, J. N. Reffell, B. T. Woode, S. G. Cole, J. B. Macauley, C. E. O. Williams, 120l. to 150l.
8 2nd Class Clerks, J. S. Woode, J. O. Lindsay, J. Harding, C. B. Noah, C. May, D. Graham, R. A. Moore, H. C. Pearce, 90l. to 120l.
6 3rd Class Clerks, E. J. Boyle, S. J. Cromanty, V. E. Williams, F. I. Paraiso, J. E. Faulkner, R. S. Gomez, 80l. to 100l.
6 4th Class Clerks, J. T. Payne, L. C. Macmillan, J. B. Hamilton, S. E. G. Garrick, J. G. Cavalcante, D. B. Sawyer, 70l. to 90l.
4 5th Class Clerks, A. A. Euba, N. J. Macauley, F. Jumbo, B. D. Pedro, 60l. to 80l.
8 6th Class Clerks, E. G. Sawyer, S. O. James, M. T. Strasser, H. W. Jones, L. Briggs, A. B. Anthony, C. M. Vincent, J. A. Otitoju, 50l. to 70l.
3 Copyists, T. Thompson, J. S. Akiloye, 1 vacancy, 24l. to 36l.
2 Telegraph Learners, O. O. Ekpe, M. Aduba, 25l.
2 Senior Postmen, O. S. Johnson, 1 vacancy, 50l.
3 Postmen, S. T. Hart, L. Emmanuel, W. James, 24l. to 36l.

Printing Department.

Government Printer, A. Wright, 300l. to 400l., and 100l. personal allowance to Mr. Wright.
Native Assistant Printer, T. T. Glover, 120l. to 180l.
1 Proof Reader, R. Byranji, 120l. to 150l.
3 Senior Compositors, D. S. Reader, N. Loper, 96l. to 120l.; J. E. Addo, 80l. to 100l.
2 1st Class Compositors, E. N. Asante, W. Boyd, 70l. to 90l.
4 2nd Class Compositors, G. Awoliyi, E. O. E. Oku, J. T. Cofie, E. A. Simon, 60l. to 80l.
5 3rd Class Compositors, R. A. Martins, B. E. Kyo, M. Henshaw, J. M. George, S. T. Argu, 40l. to 60l.
Senior Pressman, J. R. Odartey, 70l. to 90l.
1st Class Pressman (vacant), 60l. to 80l.
2nd Class Pressmen, W. K. Cameroon, W. A. J. Macaulay, 60l. to 70l.
3rd Class Pressmen, R. T. Hogan, J. P. Lampsey, 30l. to 50l.
Senior Bookbinder, F. S. Pyne, 70l. to 90l.
1st Class Bookbinder, D. A. Wilson, 60l. to 80l.
2nd Class Bookbinders, T. Henshaw, 1 vacancy, 50l. to 70l.
Ruling Machinists, E. E. Effio, 1 vacancy, 40l. to 60l.
Storekeeper, I. E. Ita, 60l. to 80l.
Assistant ditto, M. B. Wellington, 30l. to 50l.
6th Class Clerk, C. Kwofii, 50l. to 70l.
15 Apprentices.

Audit Department.
Local Auditor, also Local Auditor for Lagos, C. A. Pickwood, 400l. to 600l.
Assistant Auditors, W. Bauerle, W. H. C. Troudell, J. A. Cremer, 1 vacancy, 300l. to 400l.
1st Class Clerk, I. O. Mba, 120l. to 150l.
2nd Class Clerks, G. W. Remmie, 2 vacancies, 90l. to 120l.
4th Class Clerk (vacant), 70l. to 90l.

Southern Nigeria Regiment.
W. A. F. F.
Commandant, Lieut.-Col. H. C. Moorhouse, R.A., 800l., and 156l. duty pay.
Officer 2nd in Command, Major H. M. Trenchard, 600l., and 96l. duty pay.
Adjutant, Captain W. J. S. Hosley, 400l. and 96l. duty pay.
Officer Commanding Artillery, Captain G. T. Mair, R.A., 450l., and 96l. duty pay.
Infantry Captains, E. C. Margesson, R. E. Power, C. E. Heathcote, E. de H. Smith, H. A. Kirkby, C. V. Fox, P. S. Vassall, J. Wayling, 1 vacancy, each 400l., and 48l. duty pay.
Infantry Lieutenants, R. N. D. Fox, H. R. Eliott, G. N. Sheffield, B. M. Byrne, G. M. Shipway, A. Moore, D.S.O., H. L. Helme, R. A. Whigham, R. Money, A. W. Colley, H. C. Fox, N. M. Gepp, L. H. Moule, N. C. Duncan, G. S. C. Adams, F. C. D. Burton, J. F. Mackay, V.C., G. C. Corry-Smith, R. L. Lloyd, C. A. L. Irvine, B. G. A. Townshend, M. C. C. Miers, H. H. Hulton, 4 vacancies, 300l. to 350l.
Pay and Quartermaster, M. Aimailie, 400l. to 500l., and 60l. duty pay.
Intelligence Officer, Captain W. H. Beverley, 400l. to 500l., and 91l. 5s. duty pay.
Artillery Subalterns, H. A. Hamilton, 360l.; E. A. Steele, J. H. Gibbon, C. E. Vickery, D.S.O., 330l. each.
Native Officer, J. Daniels, 150l.
Regimental Script-Major, J. J. Ambrose, 156l., and 36l. duty pay.
Colour-Sergeants, J. Moore, D. O’Connell, A. Thacker, W. W. Pritchard, F. W. Angus, A. Francis, T. A. Stevenson, F. Reed, C. Batterby, 120l., and 24l. duty pay.
Artillery Sergt.-Major, A. E. Klee, 162l. and 24l. duty pay.
Battery Sergeant, 2nd Rating, T. H. M. Watts, 138l.,

9 2nd Rating Sergeants, A. Baxter, W. T. Lindley, T. Jones, L. H. Phillips, J. McKie, E. A. Mayne, J. W. Jelfs, 2 vacancies, 96l.
Quartermaster-Sergeant, H. Couzens, 156l., and 36l. duty pay.
Bandmaster, W. W. Sheppard, 160l.
Armourer-Sergeants, W. H. Hire, 264l. to 300l.; H. H. Goodwin, 228l.
Native Assistant (Paymaster’s Office), A. W. O’Dwyer, 200l. to 300l.
1st Class Clerk, A. P. French, 120l. to 150l.
2nd Class Clerk, D. C. During, 90l. to 120l.
Quartermaster’s Clerk, A. Obadina, 90l. to 120l.
Assistant ditto, D. E. Cocker, 80l. to 100l.
5th Class Clerk, J. H. Morrison, 60l. to 80l.
Copyist, S. J. Macfoy, 24l. to 36l.
Orderly Room Clerk, S. W. B. Frans, 90l. to 120l.
Assistant ditto Clerks, G. A. Graham, 80l. to 100l.; B. E. E. Nas, 50l. to 70l.
6th Class Clerk (vacant).
Copyist, H. H. Cole, 24l. to 36l.
Clerk (Artillery Office), S. J. Lawani, 50l. to 70l.
2nd Class Clerk (Intelligence Office), W. S. Turton, 90l. to 120l.
6th ditto (vacant).
Apprentice Draughtsmen, ditto, W. Offion, I. Morrison, 12l. to 18l.
Schoolmaster, J. T. Macfoy, 110l.
Master Tailor, A. A. Guilliem, 70l. to 90l.
Senior Assistant ditto, T. Dick, 54l.
Junior Assistant ditto, B. Stephen, 42l.
Leather Worker, J. Abadoo, 38l.

Marine Department.
Marine Superintendent, Commander H. A. Child, R.N., 600l. to 800l., and 100l. duty pay.
Assistant ditto, H. G. Moore, R.N.R., 550l.
Senior Marine Officers, V. Buckland, R.N.R., C. H. E. Crosthwaite, R.N.R., 350l. to 500l.
Marine Officers, T. E. Day, R.N.R., A. B. Crosse, R.N.R., H. C. V. Cheetham, R.N.R., H. Delves-Clough, R. N. Reynolds, R.N.R., R. H. W. Hughes, R.N.R., P. Cox, A. C. Baker, R.N.R., G. R. Hudson, R.N.R., J. D. Wilson, R.N.R., Mark Pierson, R.N.R., A. Greenstock, R.N.R., 300l. to 400l.
Marine Clerk and Accountant, W. Story, 300l. to 400l.
Superintendent Engineer, J. W. Kirk, 600l. to 700l.
Assistant Engineers, G. Lumley, G. L. Ball, R.N.R., J. Plowright, 350l. to 500l.
Assistant Engineers, M. H. Fisher, M. Fitzpatrick, C. R. Molineux, D. Tyson, O. G. Owen, A. E. Furlong, W. H. Garrick, L. J. Govier, P. H. T. Morris, 1 vacancy, 300l. to 400l.
Beach Master, A. C. Graham, 180l. to 228l.
Shipwright, J. Knox, 300l.
Boatswain, S.Y. “Ivy,” H. J. Galland, R.N.R., 180l. to 228l.
Carpenter, ditto, L. Ramsay, 240l.
Ship Carpenters, D. Warwick, D. Stone, 210l. and 90l. subsistence allowance.
Engine Fitters, W. Bailey, 1 vacancy, 210l. and 90l. subsistence allowance.
Engine Turners, A. E. Turner, E. J. Thompson, 210l. and 90l. subsistence allowance.
Boiler Makers, R. Clarke, F. A. Moncaster, 1 vacancy, 210l. and 90l. subsistence allowance.
Moulder, H. Stevens, 210l. and 90l. subsistence allowance.
European Storekeeper, S. J. Gingell, 210l. and 90l. subsistence allowance.
Purser, S.Y. “Ivy,” W. Langdon, 90l. to 120l.
