ZANZIBAR.

The Sultanate of Zanzibar was formerly an appanage of Muscat, but in 1861 became independent under an arbitration by Lord Canning (then Governor-General of India). The dominions, besides Zanzibar Island, comprise the Island of Pemba and several other small islands, and until late years the Sultan's authority extended over the Coast of East Africa, from Warsheikh in 3° N. latitude to Tunghi Bay in 10° 42' S. latitude. This authority has, however, been ceded, as regards the Coast dominions, to Italy, Great Britain, and Germany respectively, Great Britain still paying rent for the territory under their protection, whilst Germany and Italy have acquired the Sultan's rights by the payment of sums of 200,000l. and 144,000l. respectively. Zanzibar Island itself, situated in 6° S. latitude, is the largest coralline island on the African coast, being 47 miles long by 20 broad, and contains an area of 640 square miles. The port of Zanzibar is one of the finest in Africa, and has long been the centre of all commerce between India, Arabia, and the mainland. It has an excellent water supply and is used as a coaling station for His Majesty's Navy.

The climate is bad in the hot season, which lasts from December to March. The thermometer ranges from 77° to 90°, with a mean of 80° and an annual rainfall of 60 inches.

On the death of the Sultan in August, 1896, the palace was seized by Said Khaled, a member of his family, and to compel his submission the palace was bombarded by British warships. Seyyid Hamoud bin Mahomed was then installed. He died July 18th, 1902, and as his son, the present Sultan, Seyyid Ali, was then only eighteen years of age, the Government was placed under the control of the First Minister, Mr. A. S. Rogers, who acted as Regent until June 7th, 1906, when Seyyid Ali attained his majority.

Six miles to the north of Zanzibar lies the small and densely wooded but waterless Island of Tumbatu, and some 30 miles further north lies the Island of Pemba, with an area of 380 miles.

The islands are fertile, providing cloves, cocoanuts, chillies, and other tropical products, and the exports gathered from the mainland include ivory, rubber, gum, hides, ebony, and tortoise-shell. The principal imports are Manchester cotton goods, hardware, rice (from India), and coal.

The population is roughly estimated at about 250,000, which includes about 10,000 Arabs and the same number of Indians. The total European population numbers nearly 300.

The British Court has, by a late Order in Council, been made the Appeal Court from the other Protectorates of Uganda, East Africa, and British Central Africa.

His Majesty's Agent and Consul-General, Basil S. Cave, C.B.
Vice-Consuls, J. H. Sinclair, H. C. Venables, H. B. Johnstone.
Judge, Lindsey Smith.
Assistant Judges, J. W. Murison, Arthur Vincent.
Physician, Dr. Francis Charlesworth.

OTHER MISCELLANEOUS POSSESSIONS.

