TRISTAN DA CUNHA.

Tristan da Cunha is the principal of a group of islands lying in lat. 37° 6' S. long., 12° 2' W. It was taken possession of by a military force during the residence of Napoleon at St. Helena. Upon his death the garrison was withdrawn, with the exception of three men, who, with certain shipwrecked sailors, became the founders of the present settlement. For a long time only one of the settlers had a wife, but subsequently the others contracted with a sea captain to bring them wives from St. Helena. The population is about 100. The inhabitants practically enjoy their possessions in common, and there is no strong drink on the island, and no crime. It was at one time proposed to give them laws and a regular government, but this was found unnecessary for the above reasons, and they remain under the moral rule of their oldest inhabitant.

The inhabitants are spoken of as long-lived, healthy, moral, religious, and hospitable to strangers. A supply of stores and provisions was provided out of a grant voted by Parliament, and sent out by a man-of-war in 1886, nearly all the able-bodied men having been drowned while attempting to board a vessel in December, 1885.

In the way of live stock, the inhabitants have between them about 400 head of cattle, about 700 sheep, about 50 pigs, and an abundance of poultry. Potatoes do well, and a good crop is got annually. Apple trees and peach trees are in fair number, and bear well; there are also a few fig trees, but they do not fruit. The tree of the island, which apparently is a juniper, and upon which the islanders are dependent for their wood for fuel, is getting scarce in the neighbourhood of settlement, but is abundant further off, and there is no fear of supply failing.
In January, 1904, the island was visited by H.M.S. "Odin" in order to ascertain whether the islanders would accept the offer of the Cape Government to settle them in the Cape Colony, but out of eleven families only three families elected to go. The islanders are liable from time to time to privations. In March, 1907, owing to information indicating probability of failure of supplies, relief was sent by His Majesty's Government by the "Greyhound," chartered at Cape Town. On this occasion also the inhabitants were unwilling to leave the island, and the Rev. J. G. Barrow, a clergyman who had gone to the island in April, 1906, reported that though there is sure to be privation from time to time, it does not cause absolute distress. (See correspondence presented to Parliament in Od. 3098 and Od. 3764.)

January, February, and March are the best months for visiting the island. It is in these months that weather at times becomes so settled that the islanders are able to make visits to Inaccessible and Nightingale Islands, which are some 25 miles off. They also are often able to visit these islands in November.

