CAYMAN ISLANDS.

The Cayman Islands (a dependency of Jamaica) with an area of 104½ square miles and a population (in 1921) of 5,253, consist of three islands, Grand Cayman (85 square miles), Little Cayman (9 square miles), and Cayman Brac (10½ square miles), lying between 79° 83' and 81° 30' W. longitude, and 19° 16' and 19° 45' N. latitude. They were discovered by Columbus, on his return voyage from Porto Bello to Hispaniola, but were never occupied by the Spaniards. The English took possession of them soon after the conquest of Jamaica, and they were mainly colonised from that island.
Grand Cayman is distant about 178 miles from the nearest point of Jamaica. It is 17 miles in length, and varies from 4 to 7 miles in breadth. The coasts are for the most part rock-bound, protected by coral reefs and enclosing some fair-sized harbours. One on the north side of the island, called the Great Sound, measures over six miles across.

The principal industry of the inhabitants is catching turtle. These turtles are brought to the island and placed in "kraals," to recover and fatten before being sent to their next stage, Key West, United States. Over 2,000 turtles a year are thus disposed of at an average price of £1 each.

The Island of Grand Cayman is in some parts fruitful, and the usual tropical products are grown, but a considerable acreage is traversed by honey-combed limestone, and unfit for cultivation. Mahogany, cedar and other valuable timber and some dye-woods are found in quantities. Phosphate deposits of some value exist, and were worked, but have lately been neglected.

There are two towns, Georgetown and Bodden-town, and several villages. The population of Grand Cayman numbered 3,945 at the census of 1921.

The smaller Cayman Islands, viz., Little Cayman and Cayman Brac, are about 70 miles distant from Grand Cayman; they are almost entirely given up to the growth of cocoanuts. Their inhabitants numbered at the last reckoning 95 and 1,213 persons respectively.

The proportion of white inhabitants in the Cayman Islands is much larger than in most parts of the West Indies.

Fine schooners of native woods are constructed at these islands for sale and for local use, the people being first-rate shipwrights.

The Legislative Assembly of the Cayman Islands consists of the Justices of the Peace and elected Vestrymen, and the laws passed by this body are subject to the assent of the Governor of Jamaica before becoming operative.

The government of the Dependency is administered by a Commissioner.

| Revenue | Expenditure |
|---------|-------------|
| 1926    | £7,320      |
|         | £7,437      |

| Imports | Exports |
|---------|---------|
| 1926    | £42,448 |
|         | £11,484 |

Civil Establishment.

Commissioner, H. H. Hutchings, furnished house, 500l.-600l. and fees.

Clerk to Commissioner, C. M. Connor, 60l.

Government Medical Officer, Dr. G. N. Overton, partially furnished residence, 65l. for drug and travelling allowances, private practice and 300l.

Clerk of the Courts, Clerk of the Vestry, and Auditor, A. E. Panton, 150l.

Collector of Customs (Georgetown), Postmaster, R. J. Watler, 180l.

Assistant to Collector and Treasury Clerk, A. C. Panton, 125l.

Collector of Customs, Collector of Taxes, Postmaster, Inspector of Roads, Health Officer, Receiver of Wrecks, Registrar of Births and Deaths, Lesser Cayman Islands, H. W. Rutty, 180l. and fees.

Inspector of Police, Bailiff Grand Court, &c., J. R. Watler, 150l., fees and quarters.

