THE GOLD COAST COLONY.

Situation and Native Tribes.

The Gold Coast Colony, with Ashanti, the Protected Northern Territories, and the British mandated territory of Togoland, is situated on the Gulf of Guinea, between 3° 7' W. long. and 1° 14' E. long., and is bounded on the west by the French colony of the Ivory Coast, on the east by the French mandated territory of Togoland, on the north by the French Colony of the Upper Volta, and on the south by the sea.

The area of the Colony is 23,490 square miles, of Ashanti, 24,560, of the Northern Territories, 30,600, and of the British mandated territory of Togoland, 13,040.

The Colony is inhabited by a large number of tribes, whose customs and forms of government are of a more or less similar character. Each tribe has its own head chief and every town or village of the tribe a chief or headman.

The head chiefs and chiefs form the council of the tribe, and assist in dealing with matters affecting its general welfare. The succession to the chiefs' stools is for the most part in the female line, the heir to the stool being selected from among the sons of the occupant's sisters, his brothers and the male offspring of his aunts on the father's side.

The principal sea coast tribes are the following:—Apollonia, Ahanta, Shama, Komenda, Elmina, Cape Coast or Fanti, Winneba, Assin Gomoa, Ga, Adangme, Awuna, Agbosome and Afiiso.

In the interior of the Colony the principal tribes are:—Aowin, upper and lower Wassw, Sefwi, upper and lower Denkera, Tufel, Assen, Esikuma, Ajumako, Akim Abuakwa, and Akim Kotoku, Akwapim, eastern and western Krobo, Akwamu, Krepé, Shai and Ningo.

A number of different languages and dialects are spoken, the principal being, Twi, Fanti, Ewe and Ga; but the use of English is widespread.

For the purposes of administration the Colony is divided into three provinces, each presided over by a Provincial Commissioner. These Provinces are further divided into districts, presided over by District Commissioners. Most of these Officers perform judicial duties as magistrates in addition to being in administrative charge of their districts. The districts are as follows:—

1. Western province:—Districts—Axim, Ankobra, Tarkwa, Sekondi-Dixcove, Sefwi and Aowin.
2. Central province:—Districts—Cape Coast, Saltpond, Winneba, Western Akim.
3. Eastern province:—Districts—Accra, New Juaben, Akwapim, Volta River, Keta-Ada, Akim-Abuakwa, Kwahu, Ho (Togoland).

History.

It is said that as early as the reign of Edward I. (1272-1307) English navigators made voyages to the Gold Coast, and that a hundred years later French adventurers reached the coast, who, about 1364, built several lodges or forts, one being at Elmina, parts of which are supposed to have been subsequently incorporated in the present castle there. No definite evidence however exists to support these claims, although it is quite possible they are both correct; indeed, the natives until quite recently used to point out a hill near Takoradi as the site of a French fort built there many years ago. For our earliest knowledge of the Gold Coast we are indebted to the Portuguese navigators of the later years of the 14th and first part of the 15th centuries. They had been slowly extending their voyages down the West Coast of Africa, and it is recorded that in 1471 Juan de Santeren and Pedro d'Eccobar traded for gold in the neighbourhood of Elmina or Chama. They made the first European settlement eleven years later, when an expedition under Diego d'Azebujia built and garrisoned the fort San Jorge da Mina (Elmina), the materials for which he brought with him from Portugal. Several other settlements were founded, and the country was claimed for the King of Portugal by virtue of a Papal Bull granted in 1430, which gave to Portugal all the islands already discovered and all future discoveries in Guinea. This Bull was confirmed a few years after the foundation of Elmina by Pope Sextus IV. The Portuguese remained in undisputed possession for over fifty years until British merchant adventurers commenced trading on the coast, the earliest voyages of which records remain being those of Thomas Windham and Antonio Anes Pintedo, in 1553, John Lok, in 1554, and William Townson, in 1555, 1556 and 1558. The British made no settlements at this time and their trade soon lapsed altogether until the early years of the 17th century. The Dutch, however, who made their first appearance on the coast in 1590, rapidly became serious rivals of the Portuguese and practically terminated their occupation by capturing Elmina in 1637, and Fort St. Anthony at Axim in 1642. After the activities of the Elizabethan sailors and merchant companies had come to an end, the English connection with the Gold Coast was revived by the efforts of a series of merchant companies, the first of which, called the "Company of Adventurers of London trading into Africa" was founded in 1618, but did not enjoy a successful career. Another company was formed in 1631, which established the first British fort on the coast at Kormantin, and lodges at

* For map of part of West Africa, including Gold Coast and Nigeria, see under Nigeria.
several other places. This company was engaged in the slave trade, as were also the other European nations. Its charter was renewed in 1651, but in 1662 a new company was incorporated as the "Company of Royal Adventurers of England trading to Africa." Settlements were formed at Anomabu, Accra, and at Cabo Corso (Cape Coast), at which place the castle was built about this time by the English, although the Portuguese probably had a lodge there earlier. Three other European nations succeeded in acquiring territories on the Gold Coast, viz.:—The Swedes, the Brandenburghers, and the Danes. The first-mentioned built the fort of Christiansborg, near Accra about 1645, but were driven out by the Danes in 1657, and retired from the Coast. The Brandenburghers established "Fort Great Fredericksburg" at Princes River in 1683, and "Fort Dorothea" at Akwida in 1686, but their enterprise does not seem to have been prosecuted with much vigour, and was finally abandoned in 1720, their possessions falling into the hands of the Dutch. The Danes, however, after first selling the Fort at Christiansborg to the Portuguese, and re-buying it three years later, rapidly improved their position, building forts at several stations to the East of Accra, as far as Ada and Keta, and exercising a kind of Protectorate over Akwapim, and the Volta River district.

The third English Company was not successful. The Dutch traders spared no efforts to get rid of their rivals, and in consequence of their aggression, an expedition was sent by Charles II. in 1664, under the command of Captain Holmes, which recaptured Cape Coast, taken the previous year by the Dutch, and all the other Dutch forts, with the exception of Elmina and possibly Axim. In the following year, however, the Dutch Commander de Ruyter recaptured all the lost Dutch forts, with the exception of Cape Coast; and the treaty of Breda, 1667, left affairs in the Gold Coast in this condition. The fourth English Company was incorporated in the year 1672 under the name of the "Royal African Company of England." Under its influence English interests steadily advanced, and forts were established at Dixoove, Sekondi, Komenda, Anomabu, Tamtamkwei, Winneba, Accra. The abolition of the exclusive privileges which the Royal African Company enjoyed, led to its decline and eventual dissolution in 1752. By the Acts of Parliament 23 George II., c. 31, and 25 George II., c. 40, a fifth trading Corporation, called the "African Company of Merchants" was formed, the membership of which was open to all British traders on payment of a fee of 40/-, compensation being paid for its charter and property to the Royal African Company. An annual subsidy was granted by Parliament to the newly-formed Company, until 1821, when by the Act 1 & 2 George IV., c. 28, the Company was dissolved and its possessions vested in the Crown, and placed under the Government of the West African Settlement, the seat of government being at Sierra Leone.

In 1824, the Governor of Sierra Leone, Sir Charles Macarthy, on visiting Cape Coast Castle, found the neighbouring country of the Fantis in possession of the Ashantis. He formed the resolution or inciting the Fantis against their oppressors, and led an army of them, with a few disciplined soldiers, against the Ashantis at Insamankow, where, on the 24th of January, 1824, he was killed, and his force totally routed.

The war which ensued was ended by the victory of the English at Dodowa, near Accra, in 1826. Peace was formally concluded by a tripartite Treaty in 1831, between the English, the Fantis, and the Ashantis.

In the meantime, Her Majesty's Government had inclined to the policy of retiring from the coast altogether, and after the peace they actually transferred the government of the forts to the local and London merchants interested, who secured as their Governor Mr. George Maclean, a man of marked energy and capacity. This gentleman, with a force of no more than 100 men at command, and with a Government subsidy of only 4,000£. a year, contrived to extend and maintain the influence of his Government over the whole tract of country now known as the Gold Coast. In 1843, it having been suspected that the Merchant Government connived at the slave trade, the forts were resumed by the Crown, and a Lieutenant-Governor was appointed. Mr. Maclean was continued in the direction of native affairs, under the title of Judicial Assessor to the Native Chiefs, which post he held until his death in 1847.

Hitherto the forts of the various nations were intermixed with each other, and there was no defined limit as to where the influence of one or the other began or ended. The imposition of Customs duties was rendered difficult, if not impossible, by the existence of the free ports of a rival nation within a stone's throw, as it were, of the duty ports. On the 24th of January, 1850, by Letters Patent, the Settlements on the Gold Coast ceased to be dependencies of Sierra Leone, and in the same year, by the purchase of the forts and protectorate of the Danes, the Coast line from Christiansborg to Keta and the districts of Shai, eastern and western Krobo, Akwapim, Akwamu, and Krepi, were acquired by England. By a Commission dated the 19th February, 1866, the Gold Coast Settlements were reunited to the Colony of Sierra Leone under one Governor-in-Chief. In 1867, a convention was made with the Dutch by which the portion of the Coast lying to the west of the Sweet River, which flows into the sea between Cape Coast and Elmina, was allotted to Holland, England taking all the territory to the east of the river, and a customs union between the two nations was established. The Dutch, however, found many difficulties in the way of their occupation of the forts and possessions received from the English in exchange for those of their own lying to the East of the boundary line. The native tribes refused to recognise their authority, and the prospect before them was that of a long series of petty wars with no reasonable hope of profit to be gained in the future. The result was the convention made between England and Holland in 1871, by which the Dutch transferred all their forts and possessions on the Coast to the English, and Great Britain obtained at last the sole sovereignty and control of the territory from Half-Asinie to Aflao. The forts were transferred on the 6th of April, 1872. The present extent and limits of the colony are defined in the Order in Council of 1906.

**Constitution.**

At the conclusion of peace in 1874, measures were taken for placing the government of the Gold Coast upon a footing of efficiency and security.

A new charter was issued, dated the 24th of July, 1874, separating the settlements of the Gold Coast and Lagos from the government of the West Africa Settlements, and erecting them into one colony under the style of the Gold Coast Colony,
under a Governor-in-Chief, with an Administrator at Lagos. There was one Executive Council and one nominated Legislative Council for the two settlements, and one Supreme Court. The charter of 1874 was superseded by Letters Patent dated the 23rd of January, 1883, and 13th January, 1886, respectively. By the latter instrument Lagos was separated from the Gold Coast and formed into a distinct colony. Provision was made for an Executive and Legislative Council, the members of both being nominated by the Crown. Four unofficial members were appointed to the Legislative Council.

By Royal Instructions dated 20th September, 1916, under Letters Patent of the same date, all previous Instructions were revoked and the Executive and Legislative Councils were re-constituted. The Executive Council was constituted by the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney General, the Treasurer, the Director of Medical and Sanitary Services, and the Secretary for Native Affairs, with the Governor as President. The Legislative Council was constituted by the members of the Executive Council and, in addition, the Comptroller of Customs, the Director of Public Works, the General Manager of Railways, and the Commissioners of the Eastern, Central and Western Provinces, as ex officio members, and such unofficial members as might be appointed by the Crown. By an Order in Council dated 8th April, 1925, Letters Patent and Royal Instructions dated 23rd May, 1925, the Legislative Council was reconstituted. It is now composed of the Governor, fifteen Official Members and fourteen Unofficial Members. The newly-constituted Legislative Council for the first time contains an elective element; provision having been made for the election of six Head Chiefs as Provincial Members of the Council, three Municipal Members to represent the towns of Accra, Cape Coast, and Sekondi, respectively, a Mercantile Member, and a Mining Member.

Municipal Government.

The Municipal Corporations Ordinance passed in 1924 provides for elected municipal councils and abolishes the official majority which was a feature of former municipal councils. This law comes into operation when applied to a particular municipality by Order-in-Council.

Law and Justice.

The Law of the Colony is the Common law, the doctrines of equity, and the statutes of general application in force in England, on the 24th July, 1874, modified by a large number of Local Ordinances passed since that date. The Criminal Law was codified in 1892, and the civil and criminal procedure are regulated by the Supreme Court and Criminal Procedure Ordinances both originally passed in 1876.

Justice is administered by the Supreme Court, which is presided over by the Chief Justice and five Puisne Judges. Divisional Courts of the Supreme Court are held in different parts of the colony. There are also a large number of inferior Courts with limited criminal and civil jurisdiction, some of which are presided over by Police Magistrates and the remainder by Commissioners. The Supreme Court has an original civil and criminal jurisdiction, and also decides appeals from the inferior courts. The Chief Justice, and the Judges in their respective provinces have also powers of revision of the decisions of the Magistrates and Commissioners in criminal cases. Appeals from Divisional Courts are heard by a full court of the Supreme Court.

Native customary law is administered in all the Courts, in so far as it is not incompatible with any Statute or Ordinance, and not repugnant to natural justice, equity and good conscience.

Native Tribunals, presided over by Paramount or Divisional Chiefs, are established throughout the Colony, with criminal and civil jurisdiction in cases where the parties are subject thereto. Such jurisdiction has been much increased by recent legislation, and certain judicial powers have also been conferred upon State Councils and Provincial Councils.

There is an appeal from the Tribunal of a Divisional Chief to that of a Paramount Chief, and from a Paramount Chief's Tribunal to the District Commissioner's Court; but, where a title to land is in dispute, the appeal lies from the Paramount Chief's Tribunal to the Provincial Commissioner's Court.

Prisons.

There are three convict and 15 local prisons in the Colony and Ashanti, and one convict and ten local prisons in the Northern Territories. The convict prisons in the Colony and Ashanti are, Ussher Fort, Accra, the Central Prison, Sekondi and Kumasi Prison. The Prisons in the Northern Territories were placed under the administration of the Director of Prisons in 1926. Previously they had been under the control of the Chief Commissioner of the Northern Territories.

At Sekondi Central Prison, the following industries are established:-Carpentry, cabinet making, tailoring, mat and basket making, boot and shoe making, and cane furniture making. At Accra, concrete block making, cloth weaving and rope making are carried out in addition to the industries carried on at Sekondi. At Kumasi, brick making and farming on an extensive scale is performed by Prison Labour. Prison industries, such as those carried out at Sekondi and Accra, are being introduced at Kumasi and Tamaale prisons.

The Mark System is applied to convicts sentenced to two years and over.

Climate.

The climate, though hot and damp, is cooler than that of most tropical countries situated in similar latitudes. It is not in itself unhealthy; but the prevalence of mosquito-borne diseases demands the taking of all possible precautions. The exact death rate among the non-official European population is difficult to ascertain, but the rate per 1,000 is believed to have been 9·44 in the financial year 1926-27. Among the European officials the death rate per 1,000 was 2·87 during the same period. No data are at hand for estimating the death rate among the natives. Infant mortality is great. The rainfall varies with the physical configuration of the country, and is very heavy in Ashanti and the mining districts of Tarkwa, Upper and Lower Wasaw, etc. The rainy season is irregular and not clearly defined, but it may perhaps be said that the "first rains" begin in March and end in July; the "latter rains" are spread over the months of September and October. The rainy season is marked by a considerable fall in temperature, which is found to be refreshing to many Europeans, but proves trying to some.
several other places. This company was engaged in the slave trade, as were also the other European nations. Its charter was renewed in 1651, but in 1662 a new company was incorporated as the "Company of Royal Adventurers of England trading to Africa." Settlements were formed at Anomabu, Accra, and at Cabo Corso (Cape Coast), at which place the castle was built about this time by the English, although the Portuguese probably had a lodge there earlier. Three other European nations succeeded in acquiring territories on the Gold Coast, viz.:—The Swedes, the Brandenburghers, and the Danes. The first-mentioned built the fort of Christiansborg, near Accra about 1645, but were driven out by the Danes in 1657, and retired from the Coast. The Brandenburghers established "Fort Great Fredericksburg" at Princes River in 1683, and "Fort Dorothea" at Akwida in 1685, but their enterprise does not seem to have been prosecuted with much vigour, and was finally abandoned in 1720, their possessions falling into the hands of the Dutch. The Danes, however, after first selling the Fort at Christiansborg to the Portuguese, and re-buying it three years later, rapidly improved their position, building forts at several stations to the East of Accra, as far as Ada and Keta, and exercising a kind of Protectorate over Akwapim, and the Volta River district.

The third English Company was not successful. The Dutch traders spared no efforts to get rid of their rivals, and in consequence of their aggression, an expedition was sent by Charles II. In 1664, under the command of Captain Holmes, which recaptured Cape Coast, taken the previous year by the Dutch, and all the other Dutch forts, with the exception of Elmina and possibly Axim. In the following year, however, the Dutch Commander de Ruyter recaptured all the lost Dutch forts, with the exception of Cape Coast; and the treaty of Breda, 1667, left affairs in the Gold Coast in this condition. The fourth English Company was incorporated in the year 1672 under the name of the "Royal African Company of England." Under its influence English interests steadily advanced, and forts were established at Dixcove, Sekondi, Komenda, Anomabu, Tamtamkwei, Winneba, Accra. The abolition of the exclusive privileges which the Royal African Company enjoyed, led to its decline and eventual dissolution in 1752. By the Acts of Parliament 23 George II., c. 31, and 25 George II., c. 40, a fifth trading Corporation, called the "African Company of Merchants" was formed, the membership of which was open to all British traders on payment of a fee of 40/., compensation being paid for its charter and property to the Royal African Company. An annual subsidy was granted by Parliament to the newly-formed Company, until 1821, when by the Act 1 & 2 George IV., c. 28, the Company was dissolved and its possessions vested in the Crown, and placed under the Government of the West African Settlement, the seat of government being at Sierra Leone.

In 1824, the Governor of Sierra Leone, Sir Charles Macarthy, on visiting Cape Coast Castle, found the neighbouring country of the Fantis in possession of the Ashantis. He formed the resolution or inciting the Fantis against their oppressors, and led an army of them, with a few disciplined soldiers, against the Ashantis at Insamankow, where, on the 24th of January, 1824, he was killed, and his force totally routed.

The war which ensued was ended by the victory of the English at Dodowa, near Accra, in 1826. Peace was formally concluded by a tripartite Treaty in 1831, between the English, the Fantis, and the Ashantis.

In the meantime, Her Majesty's Government had inclined to the policy of retiring from the coast altogether, and after the peace they actually transferred the government of the forts to the local and London merchants interested, who secured as their Governor Mr. George Maclean, a man of marked energy and capacity. This gentleman, with a force of no more than 100 men at command, and with a Government subsidy of only 4,000l. a year, contrived to extend and maintain the influence of his Government over the whole tract of country now known as the Gold Coast. In 1843, it having been suspected that the Merchant Government connived at the slave trade, the forts were resumed by the Crown, and a Lieutenant-Governor was appointed. Mr. Maclean was continued in the direction of native affairs, under the title of Judicial Assessor to the Native Chiefs, which post he held until his death in 1847.

Hitherto the forts of the various nations were intermixed with each other, and there was no defined limit as to where the influence of one or the other began or ended. The imposition of Customs duties was rendered difficult, if not impossible, by the existence of the free ports of a rival nation within a stone's throw, as it were, of the duty ports. On the 24th of January, 1850, by Letters Patent, the Settlements on the Gold Coast ceased to be dependencies of Sierra Leone, and in the same year, by the purchase of the forts and protectorate of the Danes, the Coast line from Christiansborg to Keta and the districts of Shai, eastern and western Krobo, Akwapim, Akwamu, and Krepi, were acquired by England. By a Commission dated the 19th February, 1866, the Gold Coast Settlements were reunited to the Colony of Sierra Leone under one Governor-in-Chief. In 1867, a convention was made with the Dutch by which the portion of the Coast lying to the west of the Sweet River, which flows into the sea between Cape Coast and Elmina, was allotted to Holland, England taking all the territory to the east of the river, and a customs union between the two nations was established. The Dutch, however, found many difficulties in the way of their occupation of the forts and possessions received from the English in exchange for those of their own lying to the East of the boundary line. The native tribes refused to recognise their authority, and the prospect before them was that of a long series of petty wars with no reasonable hope of profit to be gained in the future. The result was the convention made between England and Holland in 1871, by which the Dutch transferred all their forts and possessions on the Coast to the English, and Great Britain obtained at last the sole sovereignty and control of the territory from Half-Asinie to Aflao. The forts were transferred on the 6th of April, 1872. The present extent and limits of the colony are defined in the Order in Council of 1906.

**Constitution.**

At the conclusion of peace in 1874, measures were taken for placing the government of the Gold Coast upon a footing of efficiency and security.

A new charter was issued, dated the 24th of July, 1874, separating the settlements of the Gold Coast and Lagos from the government of the West Africa Settlements, and erecting them into one colony under the style of the Gold Coast Colony.
under a Governor-in-Chief, with an Administrator at Lagos. There was one Executive Council and one nominated Legislative Council for the two settlements, and one Supreme Court. The charter of 1874 was superseded by Letters Patent dated the 23rd of January, 1883, and 13th January, 1886, respectively. By the latter instrument Lagos was separated from the Gold Coast and formed into a distinct colony. Provision was made for an Executive and Legislative Council, the members of both being nominated by the Crown. Four unofficial members were appointed to the Legislative Council.

By Royal Instructions dated 20th September, 1916, under Letters Patent of the same date, all previous Instructions were revoked and the Executive and Legislative Councils were re-constituted. The Executive Council was constituted by the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney General, the Treasurer, the Director of Medical and Sanitary Services, and the Secretary for Native Affairs, with the Governor as President. The Legislative Council was constituted by the members of the Executive Council and, in addition, the Comptroller of Customs, the Director of Public Works, the General Manager of Railways, and the Commissioners of the Eastern, Central and Western Provinces, as ex officio members, and such unofficial members as might be appointed by the Crown. By an Order in Council dated 8th April, 1925, Letters Patent and Royal Instructions dated 23rd May, 1925, the Legislative Council was reconstituted. It is now composed of the Governor, fifteen Official Members and fourteen Unofficial Members. The newly-constituted Legislative Council for the first time contains an elective element; provision having been made for the election of six Head Chiefs as Provincial Members of the Council, three Municipal Members to represent the towns of Accra, Cape Coast, and Sekondi, respectively, a Mercantile Member, and a Mining Member.

Municipal Government.

The Municipal Corporations Ordinance passed in 1924 provides for elected municipal councils and abolishes the official majority which was a feature of former municipal councils. This law comes into operation when applied to a particular municipality by Order-in-Council.

Law and Justice.

The Law of the Colony is the Common law, the doctrines of equity, and the statutes of general application in force in England, on the 24th July, 1874, modified by a large number of Local Ordinances passed since that date. The Criminal Law was codified in 1892, and the civil and criminal procedure are regulated by the Supreme Court and Criminal Procedure Ordinances both originally passed in 1876.

Justice is administered by the Supreme Court, which is presided over by the Chief Justice and five Puisne Judges. Divisional Courts of the Supreme Court are held in different parts of the colony. There are also a large number of inferior Courts with limited criminal and civil jurisdiction, some of which are presided over by Police Magistrates and the remainder by Commissioners. The Supreme Court has an original civil and criminal jurisdiction, and also decides appeals from the inferior courts. The Chief Justice, and the Judges in their respective provinces have also powers of revision of the decisions of the Magistrates and Commissioners in criminal cases. Appeals from Divisional Courts are heard by a full court of the Supreme Court.

Native customary law is administered in all the Courts, in so far as it is not incompatible with any Statute or Ordinance, and not repugnant to natural justice, equity and good conscience.

Native Tribunals, presided over by Paramount or Divisional Chiefs, are established throughout the Colony, with criminal and civil jurisdiction in cases where the parties are subject thereto. Such jurisdiction has been much increased by recent legislation, and certain judicial powers have also been conferred upon State Councils and Provincial Councils.

There is an appeal from the Tribunal of a Divisional Chief to that of a Paramount Chief, and from a Paramount Chief's Tribunal to the District Commissioner's Court; but, where a title to land is in dispute, the appeal lies from the Paramount Chief's Tribunal to the Provincial Commissioner's Court.

Prisons.

There are three convict and 15 local prisons in the Colony and Ashanti, and one convict and ten local prisons in the Northern Territories. The convict prisons in the Colony and Ashanti are, Ussher Fort, Accra, the Central Prison, Sekondi and Kumasi Prison. The Prisons in the Northern Territories were placed under the administration of the Director of Prisons in 1926. Previously they had been under the control of the Chief Commissioner of the Northern Territories.

At Sekondi Central Prison, the following industries are established:—Carpentry, cabinet making, tailoring, mat and basket making, boot and shoe making, and cane furniture making. At Accra, concrete block making, cloth weaving and rope making are carried out in addition to the industries carried on at Sekondi. At Kumasi, brick making and farming on an extensive scale is performed by Prison Labour. Prison industries, such as those carried out at Sekondi and Accra, are being introduced at Kumasi and Tamaule prisons.

The Mark System is applied to convicts sentenced to two years and over.

Climate.

The climate, though hot and damp, is cooler than that of most tropical countries situated in similar latitudes. It is not in itself unhealthy; but the prevalence of mosquito-borne diseases demands the taking of all possible precautions. The exact death rate among the non-official European population is difficult to ascertain, but the rate per 1,000 is believed to have been 9·44 in the financial year 1926-27. Among the European officials the death rate per 1,000 was 2·87 during the same period. No data are at hand for estimating the death rate among the natives. Infant mortality is great. The rainfall varies with the physical configuration of the country, and is very heavy in Axim and the mining districts of Tarkwa, Upper and Lower Wasaw, etc. The rainy season is irregular and not clearly defined, but it may perhaps be said that the "first rains" begin in March and end in July; the "latter rains" are spread over the months of September and October. The rainy season is marked by a considerable fall in temperature, which is found to be refreshing to many Europeans, but proves trying to some.
Harmattan season begins in December and ends in February. It is characterised by a cool wind which is dry and bracing.

The maximum shade temperature in 1926 was:—At Accra 84°7' F., at Sekondi 84°8' F., at Kumasi 80°1° F., and at Tamale 93°7° F. The rainfall in inches at those towns in 1926, was 16°13', 37°23', 56°81', and 44°45' respectively.

MAIL AND STEAMSHIP SERVICES.

The African Steamship Company and the British and African Steam Navigation Company, Ltd., are under contract with the Postmaster-General for conveyance of His Majesty's mails between Liverpool and the West and South-West coasts of Africa.

Regular sailings are maintained between Liverpool and West African ports for mails, passengers and cargo. There are regular sailings from London.

A Mail Steamer of these Companies leaves Liverpool for Lagos once a fortnight, calling at Sekondi and Accra, the usual length of voyage being 14 to 15 days, and once a month for Calabar.

Cargo Steamers are despatched weekly from Liverpool, and twice monthly from London, calling at the principal Gold Coast Ports. Length of voyage varies from 20 to 28 days. The London steamers call occasionally at Cardiff.

Cargo Steamers are despatched monthly, or as inducement offers, from New York, calling at the principal Gold Coast Ports outwards and homewards. Length of voyage varies from 30 to 35 days.

Cargo Steamers are despatched from Hamburg thrice monthly, calling at Rotterdam and Antwerp for the principal Gold Coast Ports. Length of voyage varies from 20 to 30 days.

Cargo Steamers are despatched monthly or as inducement offers, from Canada, calling at Sierra Leone outwards and frequently at Gold Coast Ports homewards. Length of voyage about 25 days.

Elder Dempster & Co., Ltd., act as managers for these two companies and the Agents in the Colony are the West African Lighterage and Transport Co., Ltd.

Mail Steamers of Chargeurs Réunis Line, sailing from Bordeaux, call at Accra and Sekondi on the homeward trip for passengers and cargo once a month. Local Agents:—F. & A. Swanzey Ltd., Lighterage Department.

Cargo Steamers of Compagnie C. Fabre and Compagnie Fraisinet, sailing from Marseilles, call frequently outwards and homewards at Gold Coast Ports. Local Agents:—F. & A. Swanzey, Ltd., Lighterage Department.

Cargo Steamers of the Société Navale de l'Ouest sail monthly from Hamburg, Antwerp, Havre and Bordeaux through the principal Gold Coast Ports down to Matadi. Homewards they call at all continental ports as inducement offers. Local Agents:—Anglo-Guinea Produce Co., Ltd.

Cargo Steamers of the Navigazione Libera Triestina Line sailing from Venice, Trieste, Naples, Genoa, Marseilles and Barcelona, call at the principal Gold Coast Ports once every month. Local Agents:—Anglo-Guinea Produce Co., Ltd.

Cargo Steamers of the Bull Line are despatched every three weeks from New York and monthly from the Gulf of Mexico, calling at the principal Gold Coast Ports. Length of voyage 30 to 35 days. Local Agents:—Messrs. F. and A. Swanzey, Ltd., Lighterage Department.

The Holland West Afrika Lijn, Amsterdam, maintain freight and passenger services from Hamburg, Amsterdam and Bordeaux to the West African Ports. The Lagos River Express leaves Hamburg and Amsterdam once a month and calls at Sekondi and Accra. Length of voyage varies from 20 to 23 days.

The Gold Coast Benin Express leave Hamburg and Amsterdam once a month through Gold Coast Ports down to Nigeria. Homewards they leave Accra on the 15th of every month and reach Amsterdam on the 3rd or 4th of the following month. Cargo Steamers of this Line are despatched from Hamburg, Amsterdam and Bordeaux to the principal Gold Coast Ports four times in a month. Length of voyage about three to four weeks. Local Agents:—West African Shipping Agency and Lighterage Company.

Mail and Passenger Steamers of the Woermann Line (German Africa Service) leave Hamburg on the 3rd of every month, via Southampton, and go as far as Fernando Po, calling at Sekondi and Accra on the 23rd and 24th of the same month. Homewards they call at Accra and Sekondi on the 7th and 8th of the following month and reach Hamburg via Southampton and Boulogne on the 28th. Cargo Steamers of this Line leave Hamburg on the 15th, 20th and 28th of every month and go as far as (a) Cameroons and Spanish Guinea (b) Oirlivers (c) Benin-District. They call at the Gold Coast Ports (a) on the 5th (b) 14th/18th (c) 21st/30th of the following month. Local Agents:—F. & A. Swanzey, Ltd., Lighterage Department.

Harbours.

The Gold Coast has always been at a great disadvantage, in that it possesses no deep water harbour. Jetties have been built at Sekondi, but owing to the continuous silting up of the harbour they cannot be used to their full capacity. At Accra a breakwater and jetty have also been constructed, but here again the silting difficulty prevents the use of anything except surf boats.

A harbour is now in course of construction at Takoradi, near Sekondi, which will provide still-water anchorage close to the shore, and berths alongside for three ships. The scheme admits of future extensions whereby three more berths (and, if necessary, another pier with eight berths) could be provided. It is expected that the harbour will be opened to shipping during 1928.

Internal Communications.

Railway communication now consists of a main line running from Sekondi to Kumasi thence to Accra, a distance of 362 miles, with branches, Inchaban Junction to Inchaban (4 miles), Tarkwa to Prestea (18 miles) and Huni Valley to Kade (98 miles). All these lines are 3' 6" gauge. There is a branch line Accra to Wehiang (Accra Water Works), 10 miles in length, which is 2' 6" gauge.

The railway revenue for the year 1926-27 was £1,156,453, and the working expenditure was £72,882. The total number of miles open for traffic on the 31st March, 1927, was 475, and the capital cost £8,297,938£.
The mileage of motor roads maintained by the Public Works Department is 1,689 miles, as follows:

| Province          | Gravel Roads, Miles | Tarmac Roads, Miles | Total Miles |
|-------------------|---------------------|---------------------|-------------|
| Eastern and Togoland | 316                 | 91                  | 407         |
| Central            | 372                 | 101                 | 473         |
| Western            | 250                 | 15                  | 265         |
| Ashanti            | 152                 | 119                 | 271         |
| Northern Territories | 273                | Nil.                | 273         |
|                   | 1,363               | 326                 | 1,689       |

The mileage of metalled and tarred roads has been increased to 326 miles. In addition to the 1,689 miles of motor roads which are under the control of the Public Works Department, there are some 3,815 miles of motorable roads which have been constructed and are maintained by the Chiefs. These roads are all motorable during the dry season and have opened up the country in all directions to motor traffic, and ferries have been installed and bridges built whenever necessary.

The principal waterway is the Volta River, which rises in the Kong Mountains, and flows into the sea at Ada, after a course of 200 miles. It is navigable for light draught launches as far as Akuse, and, with the exception of the Krachi rapids, can be used for canoe traffic during certain seasons of the year as far as Yeji. The Ankobra River has been largely used for transport purposes to the mines in the Prestea and Hinan Districts, and is navigable for many months of the year by surf-boats and light draught launches for a distance of 50 miles. The Tano, connected with Half Assinie, by the main lagoon, and by a tramway, three miles in length, is navigable for light draught launches and canoes as far as Tanoso, a distance of about 60 miles.

Rapids at Sutri prevent this river being further utilised.

The old canoe ferry over the Volta at Senkye has been replaced by a stern wheel ferry capable of taking the largest cars and lorries.

The Government maintains a Motor Transport Service, which operates in centres where vehicles provided by private enterprise are unobtainable or more costly than a Government owned fleet. The headquarters is at Accra, with branches at Sekondi and Kumasi. The department also handles Government cargo and officials' baggage and stores arriving by sea and arranges the coastwise shipping of Government personnel and stores between ports within the Colony.

In addition to their departmental duties, the officers of the Transport Department assist in carrying out the provisions of the Motor Traffic Ordinance by acting as Testing and Certifying Officers.

Medical Facilities.

European medical attendance can be obtained at all the principal centres of the Colony and Ashanti. In the Northern Territories a European hospital has been built at Tamale.

In many places where no medical officer is stationed, village dispensaries under the supervision of the nearest medical officer have been established.

New stations are being opened and several stations which were closed during the war re-opened.

The Gold Coast Hospital which was opened at Accra in October, 1923, and which is entirely modern in its equipment, and up-to-date in its methods, does excellent and steadily increasing work and continues to grow in popularity with the native community.

This hospital contains 198 beds and 18 cots, which are nearly always occupied and has an out-patient department which treats an average of 140 cases daily. The surgical work of the hospital is especially heavy, as many as 87 major operations having been performed in one month, in addition to very numerous minor operations and daily dressings.

Sanitation.

Sanitation is a branch of the Medical Department controlled by a Deputy Director of Sanitary Services who is responsible to the Director of Medical and Sanitary Services.

Medical Officers of Health are stationed in the larger ports and towns in the Colony and in Kumasi; but all medical officers are charged with public health duties in their respective districts.

The infant mortality rate is high, the figures for Accra for the year 1926-27 being 124 per 1,000 births.

Infant Welfare Clinics, in charge of women medical officers, have been established at Accra and Sekondi, and medical inspection of school children is systematically carried out.

Posts and Telegraphs.

The mails exchanged fortnightly between the Colony and other British Colonies on the West Coast and the United Kingdom are carried by the steamers of the British and African Steam Navigation Company and of the African Steamship Company. Mails are exchanged overland with the French sphere of Togoland and with the French Ivory Coast; and direct mails from Hamburg are received monthly.

There are 62 post offices and 145 postal agencies, the distribution being effected principally by rail and motor. When this is impossible a runner service is employed. The rate for letter (1 oz.) within the Empire is 1d., to the United States of America, 1½d., elsewhere, 3d.

There are 4,230 miles of telegraph line wire serving all the principal centres. The rate is 1/- for 12 words, and 1d. per word in excess of 12.

There are 830 miles of overhead line and 735 miles of underground cable circuits in use by telephone subscribers at the various exchanges throughout the Colony.

The trunk telephony system consists of 2,340 miles of double wire line linking up the following exchanges:—Accra, Akuse, Bekwai, Axim, Cape Coast, Dodowa, Dunkwa, Koforidua, Kpong, Kumasi, Mampong (Ashanti), Mangosee, Nkawkaw, Nasawam, Obuasi, Sekondi, Huni Valley, Tarkwa, Winneba, Saltpond, Swedru, Ada, Ho, Somanya, Tamale, Salaga, Sunyani; and Call Offices at Aburi, Accra-beach, Akropong, Anomabu, Anyinam, Apam, Dixcove, Efutusasi, Elimina, Feso, Huhunsi, Jusaqo, Kwanyako, Duakwa, Naaba, Nyakrom, Oda, Otrokpe, Pakro, Shama, Tafo, Kibi, Yeji, Akrokeri, Senchi, Peki, Suhum, Asuboi, Denu, Atuabo, Newtown, Half Assini.

There are about 1,200 telephones including those in Government offices in operation.

Further extensions to the telephone system are in progress.
Parcel Post despatches are exchanged direct with the United Kingdom and with other British Colonies in West Africa. Parcels for other countries are forwarded through the United Kingdom.

British Imperial Postal Orders are issued and paid in the Colony, and both an inland and a foreign Money Order system is in operation.

A coastal radiotelegraph station at Accra transmits radiotelegrams at 9d. per word.

The Eastern Telegraph Company transmits messages by cable to any part of the world from Accra.

Education.

Education in this Colony has hitherto largely been and is now to a still greater extent, aided and controlled by Government, and all schools are open to inspection by officers of the Education Department. On the 1st January, 1927, a new Education Ordinance came into operation, the more important of its provisions having as their aim the compulsory registration of all teachers and the awarding of definite incrementally graded salaries according to the qualifications possessed by Africans engaged in teaching.

Other effects will be to raise the quality of instruction in the schools by the payment of grant according to the efficiency of the teachers in them, and the protection of children against "instruction" by well-meaning but ignorant persons under conditions which seriously militate against health and right progress.

Apart from a large number of non-aided primary schools, many of which will automatically close under the new Ordinance, there are seventeen Government Schools and 221 Assisted Schools in the Colony and Ashanti. The latest figures show that these Government and Assisted Primary Schools had an enrolment of 32,461 pupils, of whom 6,779 were girls.

The largest of the Missions working in these territories is the Presbyterian Mission, with 96 Assisted Schools, followed next in order of size by the Wesleyan Mission with 48 Assisted Schools.

In addition to the Government Primary Schools, there are the Accra Government Technical School, and three Junior Trade Schools in different parts of the country which are all boarding schools established by Government for the purpose of giving instruction in the more common building and engineering trades with simple literary and technological training.

There are also training schools controlled by the departments concerned, e.g., Posts and Telegraphs, Agriculture and Forestry, and Surveys, where pupils are trained, being paid a salary while undergoing instruction.

Teachers intended for Government Service and certain others receive free board and instruction at the Accra Government Training College. Since January, 1926, the work of this College has been carried on by members of the Prince of Wales's College, Achimota.

Teachers and Ministers are also trained at Wesley College, Kumasi, and at the Presbyterian Training College at Akropong, Akwapim.

There are two residential Secondary Schools at Cape Coast, both of which are Government-aided, one being under the Wesleyan Mission and the other under the English Church Mission local authority.

The Roman Catholic, English Church, Wesleyan and Presbyterian Missions each have residential Girls' Schools, in which literary and domestic training is given.

Educational policy in the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast has, since the 1st April, 1926, been separated from that of the Colony proper, in order that the special needs and difficulties arising with a people who are only just beginning to come much into contact with other peoples of the Gold Coast, may receive due and proper consideration.

The Prince of Wales' College, Achimota, near Accra, of which the Kindergarten and Lower Primary Departments were opened in January, 1927, while the Upper Primary and Secondary classes are to commence in 1928, forms a separate Government Department, and is to provide a complete course of instruction for boys and girls from the Kindergarten stage up to the standard of the London Intermediate Examination. It is hoped that eventually it will become a University, granting degrees of its own. It will be entirely a boarding school, and while open to pupils of all nationalities and religions, will be based on the teaching of the Christian faith. The usual primary and secondary school subjects will be taught, with arts and science, and there will be agricultural, manual and domestic training and an engineering school. The College will also train teachers for Government and Assisted Schools. All teaching in the College is to be based on a vernacular foundation, and in the lowest classes instruction will be given in four African languages. An effort will be made throughout to keep local conditions in view.

Currency and Banking.

Prior to 1912 and 1913 the currency consisted chiefly of British gold (comparatively rare), silver and copper. In 1912, subsidiary nickel-bronze coins (1d., ½d. and ½d. pieces) were introduced, and in 1913 a special silver currency common to all the British West African Colonies of the same weight and fineness as the corresponding British coins. The coins issued are 2s., 1s., 6d. and 3d. pieces. Owing to the great increase in the demand for currency and the difficulties in obtaining adequate supplies, it was found necessary in 1915 to make British Treasury Notes legal tender, and in 1916 special West African Currency Notes were introduced. 20s. and 10s. Notes are the only values now in circulation, 5s., 2s. and 1s. Notes having been withdrawn. In 1920, owing to the rapid disappearance of silver coins, an alloy coinage was introduced of the same denominations as the silver coins and silver has now practically been withdrawn from circulation. The special West Africa silver and alloy currency and the West African Currency Notes are under the management of the West African Currency Board and are secured by sterling securities held by the Board. Current British gold and silver coins, British 20s. and 10s. Treasury Notes, West Africa Currency silver and alloy coins, West African Currency Notes, and West Africa nickel-bronze coins are all legal tender.

The Bank of British West Africa, Limited, opened at Accra on the 1st January, 1897, and now has branches at all the principal business centres in the Colony.

The Colonial Bank (now Barclay's Bank (Dominion, Colonial and Overseas) Ltd.) began business at Accra in 1917, and branches have
now been opened at other centres. Both Banks have a savings department. In 1888, a Government Savings Bank was established which is now under Post Office management. On 31st March, 1927, the amount to the credit of depositors was 77,636£.

Accounts are kept in sterling.

Population.

The first attempt to take a census was made in 1891 which, however, covered the Colony only. Since then a census has been made at ten-year intervals, viz.:—1901, 1911 and 1921. Except in 1901, the whole of Ashanti and the Northern Territories have been included. In a country such as the Gold Coast, imperfect communications and lack of education make the holding of a complete census a matter of great difficulty and even now the figures cannot be considered absolutely accurate.

The resident population on census day, 1921, was as follows:—

|                |        |
|----------------|--------|
| The Colony     | 1,174,971 |
| Ashanti       | 408,640 |
| Northern Territories | 530,391 |

Total: 2,112,002

Of this total, 2,384 were non-Africans, the majority being British. The population of the British sphere of Togoland was 187,959, of whom 20 were non-Africans. The grand total therefore for the area administered by the Gold Coast Government was 2,239,961. There was also a maritime population of 1,528 in the various harbours on census day.

The African population of the chief towns was as follows:—

| Town          | Population |
|---------------|------------|
| Accra         | 38,049     |
| Kumasi        | 23,694     |
| Cape Coast    | 14,921     |
| Keta          | 9,839      |
| Sekondi       | 9,500      |
| Teshi         | 7,804      |
| Winneba       | 6,980      |
| Saltpond      | 6,342      |
| Nasawam       | 6,143      |
| Asamankese    | 5,413      |
| Koforidua     | 5,364      |

Trade and Industries.

The chief products of the Colony are cocoa, gold and manganese. Palm oil, palm kernels, lumber, kola and copra are also shipped.

The cultivation of cocoa was started in Akwapim in 1879, and exports in 1891 realised 4£. Coffee at that time fetched a fair price, and it was not until 1898, when the price for the latter article fell so low as to make its cultivation at any distance from the coast unremunerative, that attention was paid to cocoa. Since that year the cocoa industry has made rapid strides. In 1900 the value exported was 27,280£., in 1918, 1,796,985£., and in 1920, 10,066,298£. In 1921, although the value fell considerably to 4,764,067£., the quantity of cocoa exported exceeded the 1920 export by 8,422 tons. In 1923 197,664 tons, valued at 6,566,973£.; in 1924, 223,329 tons, valued at 7,249,878£.; in 1925, 218,151 tons, valued at 8,222,263£.; and in 1926, 230,840 tons, valued at 9,181,236£. were exported respectively. There is a tax of ½d. of a penny per lb. on cocoa exported.

Gold has been exported from the Gold Coast more or less continuously since the discovery of the country by Europeans in the fifteenth century. Up to 1874, however, the industry was almost entirely in the hands of the natives. The first company for gold mining in West Africa was founded in 1874, but did little beyond exploration. A second company, formed in 1879, engaged in mining operations in the neighbourhood of Tarquah, and from that year the progress of mining enterprise is indicated by the rapid increase in the exports of gold bars, the result of European operations, as compared with those of gold dust, the produce of native mining. In 1899 there was a very remarkable development of the mining industry, which, though checked for a while by the disturbances in Ashanti, received a fresh impetus from the passing of the Concessions Ordinance in 1900, the progress of the railway, and general improvement in means of transport.

Gold is widely diffused throughout the Colony, Ashanti, and some parts of the Northern Territories, in quartz and alluvial deposits, while in Wassaw there is good conglomerate or banket formation which is now reported to extend to the Birrim District in the Eastern Province. The rivers are said to be rich in alluvial deposits. From the year 1903 (the first in which reliable statistics of production were kept) to 1921, the gold produced in the colony and Ashanti amounted to 5,062,267 fine ozs., valued at 21,504,750£. The highest annual production was in 1914, viz.:—410,655 fine ozs., valued at 1,744,498£. In 1925 the value of gold and gold dust exported was 840,525£.; in 1926, gold, valued 850,042£. Bitumen is found along the banks of the river Bonni, in Apollonia and the stream Akyikyiri, flowing into the Ehi lagoon near Half Assinie. Extensive deposits of Bauxite exist, the most important being situated near Mpraeso in the Kwahu district where a large quantity of high grade ore has been located. In the Eastern Province near Kibbi, diamonds have been found, and the alluvial is being worked. The diamond exports in 1925 were 77,313 carats, valued at 98,760£.; in 1926, 299,836 carats, valued at 362,833£. Small diamonds have also been found in other localities.

Manganese exists in large quantities close to the railway line about 33 miles from the port of Sekondi, and the shipments of this ore reached 338,657 tons in 1925, and 344,933 tons in 1926. New machinery is being installed at the mines, which is expected to raise the capacity for output to between 360,000 and 400,000 tons per annum. With the provision of proper shipping facilities at the port of Takoradi, now under construction, manganese will improve its position as one of the Colony's most valuable exports.

The trade in products of the oil-palm has suffered severely in the last quarter of a century from the competition of cocoa, and except in certain localities, notably the Volta River District, the farming of this kind of produce is neglected. The potential wealth of the Gold Coast oil-palm however is great, and every encouragement is given to the chiefs to start new plantations.

13,656,162 lbs. of Kola were exported by sea during 1925, almost entirely to Nigeria; in 1926, 12,470,028 lbs. of Kola Nuts, valued at 259,479£. Kola is also exported overland in a northerly direction but statistics of this trade cannot be kept.

An experimental sisal hemp plantation was started by Government in 1920 near Accra for the purpose of demonstrating to the people scientific
methods of cultivating and harvesting this plant in order to induce them to take up the industry. The first shipment, of about 10 tons, was made in October, 1924, whilst the total for the year was 86 tons. The fibre is of good quality and can be prepared and shipped at present prices with a large margin of profit. The exports of the commodity in 1925, amounted to 176 tons, valued at £9,955; in 1926, 456 tons, valued at £18,195.

The values of the following exports for 1926 were:

| Item          | Value     |
|---------------|-----------|
| Cocoa         | £9,181,235|
| Raw Gold      | 850,042   |
| Manganese Ore | 684,852   |
| Kola Nuts     | 259,479   |
| Lumber        | 213,928   |
| Palm Kernels  | 125,556   |
| Palm Oil      | 52,283    |
| Copra         | 33,482    |
| Diamonds      | 362,833   |

The first in value of the imports in 1926 was cotton piece goods, followed by Railway Plant and rolling stock, and silk goods, but there is a steady demand for provisions, hardware, machinery, oils, motor spirits, flour, illuminating oils, building materials, cement and lime, soap, bags and sacks, spirits and malt liquors. The use of motor transport is rapidly extending in the colony; in 1925, the number of motor cars and lorries imported was 1,291; in 1926, 1,453.

Native manufactures are insignificant. Cloths are woven in many parts of the country, for the most part of English spun yarn, but in the northern districts occasionally of thread manufactured from the indigenous cotton plant. Narrow strips of four to six inches are woven on a rough hand loom, and stitched together to make clothes of various sizes. Gold and brass are worked by native smiths; canoes are made on the coast rivers; pottery for domestic purposes is made by hand, and wood-carving is done chiefly in Ashanti and Kwahu. Salt is roughly prepared from the lagoons between Accra and Quittah, and sent up country to the markets of the Northern Territories. Fishing is extensively carried on along the coast, and large quantities of sun-dried fish are sent to the villages and markets of the interior.

ASHANTI.

Ashanti is inhabited by a large number of confederated tribes, the principal of which are the Bekwai, Adansis, Kokofus, Nkwantas, Kumasis, Agunas, Mampons, Nautas, Kumawus, Bompatas, Juabins and Ejisus. Each tribe has its own Head Chief, but from time immemorial the King of Kumasi was recognised as the King paramount of the Confederation.

In 1873 the King of Ashanti invaded the British Protectorate with a large army, and reached Elmina, where he was entirely defeated by the British forces under Colonel (afterwards Sir) Francis Festing. Later in the year Captain (afterwards Sir) John Glover was sent to the eastern districts of the Protectorate to organise the tribes in that quarter, for a flank movement against the Ashanti territory. At the same time Sir Garnet, (afterwards Viscount) Wolseley was despatched to the Gold Coast, with British and West Indian troops, native levies, and some seamen and marines, to operate against the Ashantis, starting from Cape Coast. On the 31st of January, 1874, he came into general engagement with the enemy at Amoafuful, where he drove them from their position after desperate resistance. The next four days were employed continuously in fighting, until, on the evening of the 4th of February, the British force entered Kumasi. The King had fled to the bush. A few days later Sir John Glover also reached Kumasi. On the 13th, messengers sent by the King concluded a peace with Sir Garnet Wolseley at Fomana, which was afterwards signed with a pencil cross by King Kofi. By the Treaty of Fomana, the King of Ashanti renounced all claims on the Protectorate, promised to protect traders, to abandon human sacrifices, and to pay an indemnity of 50,000 ozs. of gold.

In 1894 Prempeh, who was then King of Kumasi, and had successfully fought against the Nkoranzas, who had revolted against his rule, threatened to attack the Atehubus. This attack was averted by the despatch of a force under Sir Francis Scott, and an ultimatum was then sent to Prempeh warning him not to enter British territory, and suggesting that he should acquiesce in the establishment of a Residency at Kumasi. No definite reply to this suggestion could be obtained, and a military expedition accordingly proceeded to Kumasi, to compel compliance with the demands of Her Majesty's Government. The expedition, under the command of Sir Francis Scott, entered Kumasi without resistance, January, 1896. Prempeh made submission, but, failing to comply with the terms dictated, was brought to the coast as a political prisoner and lodged in Elmina Castle, whence he was eventually deported to the Seychelles. A Resident was at the same time installed at Kumasi, and thus commenced an entirely new departure in the relations of the Gold Coast Colony with Ashanti.

In 1900 the Governor visited Kumasi, and was there besieged by the Ashantis, the town being closely invested. Provisions ran short, and a part of the garrison, with the Governor, cut their way out; the rest were relieved by Colonel (afterwards Sir J.) Willcocks, commanding the Ashanti Field Force, on 16th July, after severe fighting. The Ashantis were subsequently thoroughly routed at Abuosu.

An Order of the King in Council, dated September 26th, 1901, defined the boundaries of Ashanti, annexed it to His Majesty's Dominions, and provided for its administration under the Governor of the Gold Coast. Ashanti is under a Chief Commissioner, with Commissioners of Provinces and Districts under him. By a subsequent Order in Council of the 22nd of October, 1906, the boundaries between the Colony and Ashanti, and between Ashanti and the Northern Territories, were re-adjusted and defined, with due regard to tribal lands and natural features.

Ashanti is now divided into two provinces, the Eastern with headquarters at Kumasi and the Western with headquarters at Sunyani. Each of these is subdivided into districts under a District Commissioner who exercises limited jurisdiction; as does also a Police Magistrate in the town of Kumasi.

In 1919 a Circuit Judge was appointed for Ashanti. This officer relieves the Chief Commissioner of practically all judicial work except civil cases and matters in which native customary law is applicable.

The peaceful relations which, under the auspices of the Gold Coast Government, have existed for many years now between the Ashanti
and the neighbouring tribes have been signified by not infrequent petitions emanating from the Gold Coast Colony as well as from Ashanti for the return from exile of Prempeh, the former Chief of Kumasi. The confidence felt by the Government of the Gold Coast in the loyalty of the Ashanti people led to the granting of this request in 1924, and to approval being given in 1926 of his election by his people as Omanhene or Head Chief of the Kumasi tribe.

THE NORTHERN TERRITORIES.

In 1897 the territories to the north of Ashanti were constituted a separate district with the title of "The Northern Territories," and placed in charge of a Commissioner, and a grant-in-aid of the expenditure in the Northern Territories was voted by Parliament.

Major H. P. Northcott was appointed Commissioner and Commandant of these territories, with the rank of Lieutenant-Colonel. The negotiations between the British and French Governments for the settlement of territorial questions in West Africa, which had been suspended in 1896, were resumed in October, 1897; and on 14th June, 1898, after a period of considerable tension in consequence of the proximity of the British and French forces in the disputed territories, a Convention was signed at Paris with a proviso that it should be ratified within six (subsequently extended to twelve) months. By this Convention the boundary between the Gold Coast and the French Colony of the Ivory Coast, which had only been settled in 1889, as far as the 9th parallel of north latitude, was continued northwards along the course of the Black Volta River to the 11th parallel, and it was then drawn along the 11th parallel with a deflection to the north in the neighbourhood of Mamprusi, until it met the Franco-German boundary of 1897. The effect of the Anglo-French Convention of 14th June, 1898, was to leave Bona, Lobi, and Moshi to France, while Dagati, Wa, Mamprusi, and the southern portion of Grunshi were included in the British sphere.

On 14th November, 1899, an agreement was concluded with Germany for the partition of the "neutral zone." This partition assigned Salaga to Great Britain, and Yendi to Germany, and to the north of the zone gave Mamprusi to the former and Chakosi to the latter.

Survey operations were undertaken by Anglo-French and Anglo-German Commissions during 1901-2, for the delimitation of those portions of the boundaries which had not yet been settled.

By the demarcation on the ground of the Anglo-German boundary between the Trans-Volta District and the adjoining Colony of Togo; of the Anglo-German boundary north of the 9th parallel of north latitude; and of the Anglo-French boundary along the 11th parallel of north latitude, all the frontiers of the Colony, Ashanti and the Northern Territories have now been exactly defined.

Provision was made for the administration of the Northern Territories under the Gold Coast Government by an Order of the King in Council of 26th September, 1901, and by an Administrative Ordinance of January 1st, 1902, the Northern Territories were placed under a Chief Commissioner, and divided into the White Volta, Black Volta, Kintampo and Gonja Districts with headquarters at Gambaga, Wa, Kintampo and Salaga.

By proclamation of 30th Dec., 1922, the country was re-divided as follows:

Northern Province, consisting of the districts of Northern Mamprusi; Kumasi (Protectorate Section of), Southern Mamprusi (Protectorate Section of), Lawra-Tumu and Wa.

Southern Province, consisting of Western Dagamba, Eastern Gonja (Protectorate Section of), and Western Gonja.

The Districts are presided over by Commissioners, who are responsible to the Chief Commissioner and have Courts of Justice, with appeal to the Chief Commissioner at Tamale.

By Order in Council, of the 22nd of October, 1906, the boundaries between the Northern Territories and Ashanti were re-adjusted and defined.

An important step was taken with regard to the Government of this Protectorate by replacing, with effect from the 1st of January, 1907, the former semi-military administration by a staff of Civil District and Assistant District Commissioners, and by establishing new stations. Simultaneously, the 2nd Battalion of the Gold Coast Regiment was disbanded and a force of armed constabulary substituted therefor.

In 1920 the Circuit Judge, Ashanti, was appointed to exercise in the Northern Territories powers similar to those which he exercises in Ashanti.

THE BRITISH SPHERE OF TOGOLAND.

The former German protectorate of Togoland is situated on the Gulf of Guinea, bounded on the east by Dahomey and on the west by the Gold Coast and its Protectorates. The actual coast-line lies between 1° 45' and 1° 14' W. longitude, the frontiers, however, especially on the west, opening out considerably. The total area is about 36,500 square miles.

Until 1884-85 the majority of the tribes along the littoral and its immediate hinterland, also those adjoining the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast regarded themselves as being under the suzerainty of Great Britain, but by agreements made with the French on the 24th December, 1885, and with the British on the 14th and 28th July, 1886, when provisional frontiers were fixed, German influence was formally recognized by those Powers. Subsequent agreements dated the 23rd July, 1897, and the 14th November, 1899, between Germany and the Governments of France and Great Britain respectively defined the northern frontiers of Togoland.

Immediately upon the outbreak of war between Great Britain and Germany Togoland was invaded by the Gold Coast forces. On the 6th August, 1914, Captain E. B. Barker entered the capital, Lome, under a flag of truce and on the following day that town and the hinterland for a distance of 120 kilometers from the sea were surrendered. On the 8th August Anecho (Petit Popo) was occupied by the French. Operations on a larger scale commenced on the 11th August when Temporary Lieutenant-Colonel F. C. Bryant landed at Lome. After engagements at Agbelufoe and Chra River on the 16th and 24th August respectively the enemy retired on the great wireless station at Kamina, which they destroyed. On the 26th August the Acting-Governor surrendered the Colony unconditionally.

Four parleys then took place between Sir Hugh Clifford, governor of the Gold Coast, and M. Noufflard, governor of Dahomey, as the result
methods of cultivating and harvesting this plant in order to induce them to take up the industry. The first shipment, of about 10 tons, was made in October, 1924, whilst the total for the year was 86 tons. The fibre is of good quality and can be prepared and shipped at present prices with a large margin of profit. The exports of the commodity in 1925, amounted to 176 tons, valued at £6,995; in 1926, 456 tons, valued at £18,190.

The values of the following exports for 1926 were:

| Export          | Value   |
|-----------------|---------|
| Coco              | £9,181,235 |
| Raw Gold         | 850,042  |
| Manganese Ore    | 684,852  |
| Kola Nuts        | 259,479  |
| Lumber           | 213,928  |
| Palm Kernels     | 126,556  |
| Palm Oil         | 52,283   |
| Copra            | 33,482   |
| Diamonds         | 362,833  |

The first in value of the imports in 1926 was cotton piece goods, followed by Railway Plant and rolling stock, and silk goods, but there is a steady demand for provisions, hardware, machinery, oils, motor spirits, flour, illuminating oils, building materials, cement and lime, soap, bags and sacks, spirits and malt liquors. The use of motor transport is rapidly extending in the colony; in 1925, the number of motor cars and lorries imported was 1,291; in 1926, 1,453.

Native manufactures are insignificant. Cloths are woven in many parts of the country, for the most part of English spun yarn, but in the northern districts occasionally of thread manufactured from the indigenous cotton plant. Narrow strips of four to six inches are woven on a rough hand loom, and stitched together to make clothes of various sizes. Gold and brass are worked by native smiths; canoes are made on the coast rivers; pottery for domestic purposes is made by hand, and wood-carving is done chiefly in Ashanti and Kwahu. Salt is roughly prepared from the lagoons between Accra and Quittah, and sent up country to the markets of the Northern Territories. Fishing is extensively carried on along the coast, and large quantities of sun-dried fish are sent to the villages and markets of the interior.

ASHANTI.

Ashanti is inhabited by a large number of confederated tribes, the principal of which are the Bekwais, Adansis, Kokofus, Nkwantas, Kumasis, Agunas, Mampons, Nsutas, Kumawus, Bompatas, Juabins and Ejias. Each tribe has its own Head Chief, but from time immemorial the King of Kumasi was recognised as the King paramount of the Confederation.

In 1873 the King of Ashanti invaded the British Protectorate with a large army, and reached Elmina, where he was entirely defeated by the British forces under Colonel (afterwards Sir) Francis Feating. Later in the year Captain (afterwards Sir) John Glover was sent to the eastern districts of the Protectorate to organise the tribes in that quarter, for a flank movement against the Ashanti territory. At the same time Sir Garnet, (afterwards Viscount) Wolseley was despatched to the Gold Coast, with British and West Indian troops, native levies, and some seamen and marines, to operate against the Ashantis, starting from Cape Coast. On the 31st of January, 1874, he came into general engagement with the enemy at Amoafu, where he drove them from their position after desperate resistance. The next four days were employed continuously in fighting, until, on the evening of the 4th of February, the British force entered Kumasi. The King had fled to the bush. A few days later Sir John Glover also reached Kumasi. On the 13th, messengers sent by the King concluded a peace with Sir Garnet Wolseley at Fomana, which was afterwards signed with a pencil cross by King Koh. By the Treaty of Fomana, the King of Ashanti renounced all claims on the Protectorate, promised to protect traders, to abandon human sacrifices, and to pay an indemnity of 50,000 ozs. of gold.

In 1894 Prempeh, who was then King of Kumasi, and had successfully fought against the Nkoranza, who had revolted against his rule, threatened to attack the Atebubus. This attack was averted by the despatch of a force under Sir Francis Scott, and an ultimatum was then sent to Prempeh warning him not to enter British territory, and suggesting that he should acquiesce in the establishment of a Residency at Kumasi. No definite reply to this suggestion could be obtained, and a military expedition accordingly proceeded to Kumasi, to compel compliance with the demands of Her Majesty's Government. The expedition, under the command of Sir Francis Scott, entered Kumasi without resistance, January, 1896. Prempeh made submission, but, failing to comply with the terms dictated, was brought to the coast as a political prisoner and lodged in Elmina Castle, whence he was eventually deported to the Seychelles. A Resident was at the same time installed at Kumasi, and thus commenced an entirely new departure in the relations of the Gold Coast Colony with Ashanti.

In 1900 the Governor visited Kumasi, and was there besieged by the Ashantis, the town being closely invested. Provisions ran short, and a part of the garrison, with the Governor, cut their way out; the rest were relieved by Colonel (afterwards Sir J.) Willcocks, commanding the Ashanti Field Force, on 15th July, after severe fighting. The Ashantis were subsequently thoroughly routed at Abuosu.

An Order of the King in Council, dated September 26th, 1901, defined the boundaries of Ashanti, annexed it to His Majesty's Dominions, and provided for its administration under the Governor of the Gold Coast. Ashanti is under a Chief Commissioner, with Commissioners of Provinces and Districts under him. By a subsequent Order in Council of the 22nd of October, 1906, the boundaries between the Colony and Ashanti, and between Ashanti and the Northern Territories, were re-adjusted and defined, with due regard to tribal lands and natural features.

Ashanti is now divided into two provinces, the Eastern with headquarters at Kumasi and the Western with headquarters at Sunyani. Each of these is subdivided into districts under a District Commissioner who exercises limited jurisdiction; as does also a Police Magistrate in the town of Kumasi.

In 1919 a Circuit Judge was appointed for Ashanti. This officer relieves the Chief Commissioner of practically all judicial work except civil cases and matters in which native customary law is applicable.

The peaceful relations which, under the auspices of the Gold Coast Government, have existed for many years now between the Ashanti...
and the neighbouring tribes have been signified by not infrequent petitions emanating from the Gold Coast Colony as well as from Ashanti for the return from exile of Prempeh, the former Chief of Kumasi. The confidence felt by the Government of the Gold Coast in the loyalty of the Ashanti people led to the granting of this request in 1924, and to approval being given in 1926 of his election by his people as Omanhene or Head Chief of the Kumasi tribe.

THE NORTHERN TERRITORIES.

In 1897 the territories to the north of Ashanti were constituted a separate district with the title of "The Northern Territories," and placed in charge of a Commissioner, and a grant-in-aid of the expenditure in the Northern Territories was voted by Parliament.

Major H. P. Northcott was appointed Commissioner and Commandant of these territories, with the rank of Lieutenant-Colonel. The negotiations between the British and French Governments for the settlement of territorial questions in West Africa, which had been suspended in 1896, were resumed in October, 1897; and on 14th June, 1898, after a period of considerable tension in consequence of the proximity of the British and French forces in the disputed territories, a Convention was signed at Paris with a proviso that it should be ratified within six (subsequently extended to twelve) months. By this Convention the boundary between the Gold Coast and the French Colony of the Ivory Coast, which had only been settled in 1889, as far as the 9th parallel of north latitude, was continued northwards along the course of the Black Volta River to the 11th parallel, and it was then drawn along the 11th parallel with a deflection to the north in the neighbourhood of Mamprusi, until it met the Franco-German boundary of 1897.

The effect of the Anglo-French Convention of 14th June, 1898, was to leave Bona, Lobi, and Moshi to France, while Dagati, Wa, Mamprusi, and the southern portion of Gunshu were included in the British sphere.

On 14th November, 1899, an agreement was concluded with Germany for the partition of the "neutral zone." This partition assigned Salaga to Great Britain, and Yendi to Germany, and to the north of the zone gave Mamprusi to the former and Chakosi to the latter.

Survey operations were undertaken by Anglo-French and Anglo-German Commissions during 1901-2, for the delimitation of those portions of the boundaries which had not yet been settled.

By the demarcation on the ground of the Anglo-German boundary between the Trans-Volta District and the adjoining Colony of Togo; of the Anglo-German boundary north of the 9th parallel of north latitude; and of the Anglo-French boundary along the 11th parallel of north latitude, all the frontiers of the Colony, Ashanti and the Northern Territories have now been exactly defined.

Provision was made for the administration of the Northern Territories under the Gold Coast Government by an Order of the King in Council of 26th September, 1901, and by an Administrative Ordinance of January 1st, 1902, the Northern Territories were placed under a Chief Commissioner, and divided into the White Volta, Black Volta, Kintampo and Gonja Districts with headquarters at Gambaga, Wa, Kintampo and Salaga.

By proclamation of 30th Dec., 1922, the country was re-divided as follows:

Northern Province, consisting of the districts of Northern Mamprusi; Kumasi (Protectorate Section of), Southern Mamprusi (Protectorate Section of), Lawra-Tumu and Wa.

Southern Province, consisting of Western Dagamba, Eastern Gonja (Protectorate Section of), and Western Gonja.

The Districts are presided over by Commissioners, who are responsible to the Chief Commissioner and have Courts of Justice, with appeal to the Chief Commissioner at Tamale.

By Order in Council, of the 22nd of October, 1906, the boundaries between the Northern Territories and Ashanti were re-adjusted and defined.

An important step was taken with regard to the Government of this Protectorate by replacing, with effect from the 1st of January, 1907, the former semi-military administration by a staff of Civil District and Assistant District Commissioners, and by establishing new stations. Simultaneously, the 2nd Battalion of the Gold Coast Regiment was disbanded and a force of armed constabulary substituted therefor.

In 1920 the Circuit Judge, Ashanti, was appointed to exercise in the Northern Territories powers similar to those which he exercises in Ashanti.

THE BRITISH SPHERE OF TOGO-LAND.

The former German protectorate of Togoland is situated on the Gulf of Guinea, bounded on the east by Dahomey and on the west by the Gold Coast and its Protectorates. The actual coast-line lies between 1° 45' and 1° 14' W. longitude, the frontiers, however, especially on the west, opening out considerably. The total area is about 36,500 square miles.

Until 1884-85 the majority of the tribes along the littoral and its immediate hinterland, also those adjoining the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast regarded themselves as being under the suzerainty of Great Britain, but by agreements made with the French on the 24th December, 1885, and with the British on the 14th and 28th July, 1886, when provisional frontiers were fixed, German influence was formally recognized by those Powers. Subsequent agreements dated the 23rd July, 1897, and the 14th November, 1899, between Germany and the Governments of France and Great Britain respectively defined the northern frontiers of Togoland.

Immediately upon the outbreak of war between Great Britain and Germany Togoland was invaded by the Gold Coast forces. On the 6th August, 1914, Captain E. B. Barker entered the capital, Lome, under a flag of truce and on the following day that town and the hinterland for a distance of 120 kilometers from the sea were surrendered. On the 8th August Anecho (Petit Popo) was occupied by the French. Operations on a larger scale commenced on the 11th August when Temporary Lieutenant-Colonel F. C. Bryant landed at Lome. After engagements at Agbelufoe and Chra River on the 16th and 24th August respectively the enemy retired on the great wireless station at Kamina, which they destroyed. On the 26th August the Acting-Governor surrendered the Colony unconditionally.

Pour partiers then took place between Sir Hugh Clifford, governor of the Gold Coast, and M. Noufflard, governor of Dahomey, as the result
of which an agreement, subsequently ratified by the governments concerned was drawn up. Under this agreement Togoland was provisionally divided into British and French spheres. To the British were allotted the western administrative areas of Lome and Lomeland, Misahoe, Kete-Krachi and Yendi, and to the French Anecho, Atakpame, Sokode and Sansanene Mangu.

By proclamation dated the 30th September, 1914, civil courts were established under the presidency of political officers seconded from the Gold Coast, appeal lying from the district courts to that of a senior political officer. In the absence of a local criminal code, that of the Gold Coast was introduced as a basis of procedure.

In June, 1915, the office of senior political officer was merged in that of the senior military commander, without prejudice, however, to the civil nature of the court concerned.

Boundary adjustments with the French took place in 1920 in accordance with an agreement signed by Lord Milner and M. Simon on 10th July, 1919. Lome and the whole of the coast were given over to the French, and the British received additional territory in the interior. The area of the British sphere is 13,040 square miles.

In October, 1921, the Council of the League of Nations approved in principle the arrangements made between the British and French Governments for the division of Togoland in accordance with the agreement of 10th July, 1919, and the application to the territories of the Mandate system; and on 20th July, 1922, after a delay due to negotiations between the United States Government and the Mandatory Powers, the Council confirmed the mandates and defined their terms.*

The British Sphere of Togoland is now administered under the provisions of the British Sphere of Togoland Order in Council, 1923, which was issued on the 11th of October, 1923.

Under this instrument, the British Sphere is divided into the Northern Section and the Southern Section. The Northern Section is administered as if it formed part of the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast, and the Southern Section is administered as if it formed part of the Eastern Province of the Gold Coast Colony. The Chief Commissioner's Court of the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast exercises jurisdiction in the Northern Section; and the Supreme Court of the Gold Coast Colony exercises the jurisdiction in the Southern Section.

Subject to the terms of the Mandate, the law for the time being in force in the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast is the law in force in the Northern Section, and the law for the time being in force in the Gold Coast Colony is the law in force in the Southern Section. The Governor of the Gold Coast Colony is empowered to enact Ordinances with respect to the British Sphere as a whole, or with respect to either Section thereof separately. The British Sphere of Togoland is not distinguished from the Gold Coast in the statistical returns, but it is beyond question that the revenue which it brings to the Gold Coast is inconsiderable compared with the money expended upon it. It contains no part of the old German railway system, which retains most of the export and import trade of the Southern and richest Section. The towns of Ho and Kpandu are joined to the Gold Coast road system by a road which meets the Volta River at Senchi where there is a motor ferry. There is also a direct road from Yendi to Tamale, but the Gold Coast cannot offer prices sufficiently attractive to induce the people to abandon their accustomed market centres on the Lome Railway.

Statistics of the Colony.

| Year | Revenue | Expenditure | British Tonnage | Total Tonnage |
|------|---------|-------------|-----------------|--------------|
| 1917 | £1,624,124 | £1,424,979 | 1,216,940 | 1,447,345 |
| 1918 | £1,298,674 | £1,369,486 | 957,599 | 1,081,677 |
| 1919 | £2,001,360 | £1,781,170 | 1,404,715 | 1,670,806 |
| 1920 | £3,721,772 | £2,856,347 | 1,767,492 | 2,388,254 |
| 1921 | (£)792,488 | £1,021,647 | — | — |
| 1921-22 | £3,016,520 | £3,285,290 | 1,675,108 | 2,509,161 |
| 1922-23 | £3,357,196 | £2,934,944 | 1,797,877 | 2,775,638 |
| 1923-24 | £3,742,834 | £3,156,124 | 1,977,364 | 3,297,869 |
| 1924-25 | £3,971,187 | £3,828,333 | 2,189,097 | 3,671,964 |
| 1925-26 | £4,116,442 | £4,255,126 | 2,490,651 | 4,181,150 |
| 1926-27 | £4,365,321 | £4,328,159 | 2,698,872 | 4,812,222 |

*Imports.

| Year | From U.K. | From Colonies | From Elsewhere | Total |
|------|-----------|---------------|----------------|-------|
| 1917 | £2,308,797 | £128,528 | £949,155 | £3,386,480 |
| 1918 | £2,125,002 | £55,022 | £739,891 | £2,919,915 |
| 1919 | £6,055,777 | £179,974 | £1,711,230 | £7,946,981 |
| 1920 | £11,826,204 | £224,216 | £3,101,725 | £15,152,145 |
| 1921 | £8,827,740 | £151,162 | £1,676,432 | £7,681,324 |
| 1922 | £9,986,325 | £417,790 | £1,515,224 | £7,919,339 |
| 1923 | £5,847,795 | £251,722 | £2,349,345 | £8,448,862 |
| 1924 | £5,406,983 | £283,691 | £2,624,560 | £8,315,234 |
| 1925 | £6,363,566 | £240,856 | £3,178,197 | £9,782,619 |
| 1926 | £5,717,461 | £1,141,922 | £426,493 | £10,285,876 |

*Exports.

| Year | To U.K. | To Colonies | To Elsewhere | Total |
|------|---------|-------------|--------------|-------|
| 1917 | £3,666,743 | £970,282 | £1,737,900 | £6,364,925 |
| 1918 | £1,243,810 | £299,133 | £1,098,984 | £2,641,927 |
| 1919 | £4,951,110 | £882,060 | £5,481,005 | £10,814,175 |
| 1920 | £5,864,725 | £530,430 | £5,957,052 | £12,352,207 |
| 1921 | £3,215,645 | £488,674 | £3,237,878 | £6,942,197 |
| 1922 | £3,522,555 | £343,993 | £4,477,087 | £8,343,635 |
| 1923 | £3,058,616 | £347,699 | £5,552,898 | £8,959,213 |
| 1924 | £2,884,926 | £429,509 | £6,600,502 | £9,914,937 |
| 1925 | £3,372,680 | £426,161 | £7,091,442 | £10,890,223 |
| 1926 | £3,570,865 | £437,809 | £8,096,126 | £12,104,800 |

Customs receipts, 1924—£2,208,709; 1925—£2,531,811; 1926—£2,244,629.

Governors of the Gold Coast (since 1900).

1900. Sir Matthew Nathan, K.C.M.G.
1904. Sir John P. Rodger, K.C.M.G.
1910. J. J. Thorburn, Esq., C.M.G.
1912. Sir Hugh C. Clifford, K.C.M.G.
1919. Brigadier-General Sir F. Gordon Guggisberg, K.C.M.G., D.S.O., R.E.
1927. Sir Alexander Ransford Slater, K.C.M.G., C.B.E.

Executive Council.

The Governor, President.
The Colonial Secretary.
The Attorney-General.
The Treasurer.
The Director of Medical and Sanitary Services.
The Secretary for Native Affairs.

* These figures refer to calendar years.
The Legislative Council is composed of the same members as the Executive Council, with the addition of the following Members:

Ex Officio Members:
- The Comptroller of Customs.
- The Director of Public Works.
- The General Manager of Railways.
- The Commissioner of the Eastern Province.
- The Commissioner of the Central Province.
- The Commissioner of the Western Province.
- The Surveyor General.
- The Director of Education.

Nominated Official Members:
- The Conservator of Forests.
- The Director of Agriculture.

Unofficial Members:
6 Provincial Members:
- Elected, Nana Kwesi Akuffo (Omanhene of Akwapim); Nana Ayirebi Acquah III. (Omanhene of Winneba); Nene Mate Kole (Konor of Manya Krobo); Nana Otu Abasio II (Omanhene of Abura); Togbi Sri II (Awame Fia of Awuna).
- Nominated, Sir Nana Ofori Atta, K.B.E. (Omanhene of Akim Abuakwa).
- Elected Mercantile Member, R. Harris.
- Nominated Mining Member, J. D. McKay, O.B.E.
- Nominated Unofficial Members, J. S. Bonitto, F. E. Talland, T. Whitfield.
- Nominated Municipal Members, J. Glover-Addo, J. E. Casely Hayford, M.B.E.
- Clerk of Councils, D. B. Strathairn.

† Civil Establishment.

Governor's Office.
Governor, Sir A. Ransford Slater, K.C.M.G., C.B.E., 4,500L, plus 1,500L duty allowance.
Private Secretary, V. Basivi, 500L.
Aide-de-Camp, (vacant).

† In the following particulars of the Civil Establishment—

Scale A is as follows.—For those appointed before 1st October, 1923; 450L for three years, then 510L by 30L to 720L by 40L to 920L, with seniority allowance of 72L from 720L.

For those appointed on or after 1st October, 1923; 400L, 418L, 430L, 460L, by 30L to 720L, by 40L to 920L, with seniority allowance of 72L from 720L.

Scale B is as follows.—For those appointed before 1st October, 1923; 500L for three years, then 570L by 30L to 720L by 40L to 960L, with seniority allowance of 72L from 720L.

For those appointed on or after 1st October, 1923; 450L for three years, then 510L by 30L to 720L by 40L to 960L, with seniority allowance of 72L from 720L.

Scale C is as follows.—For those appointed before 1st October, 1923; 400L by 30L to 720L by 40L to 920L, with seniority allowance of 72L from 720L.

For those appointed on or after 1st October, 1923; 380L by 12L to 460L, the last increment being 16L.

Scale D is as follows.—For those appointed before 1st October, 1923; 400L by 12L to 460L.

For those appointed on or after 1st October, 1923; 380L by 12L to 460L—the last increment being 16L.

Scale F is as follows.—For those appointed before 1st October, 1923; 440L by 12L to 500L—the last increment being 16L.

Colonial Secretary's Office.
Colonial Secretary, T. S. W. Thomas, O.B.E., 1,800L, and duty allowance, 360L.
Chief Assistant Colonial Secretary, G. C. Du-Boulay, 1,200L, and duty allowance, 240L.
Senior Assistant Colonial Secretaries, D. B. Strathairn, E. A. T. Taylor, J. P. Ross*, 1,050L, and duty allowance, 210L.
Assistant Colonial Secretaries, J. L. Trafford, L. W. Wood, Capt. W. H. Gilliland, R. B. Crabbe, W. T. Harragin, Capt. G. C. B. Parish, Scale B, and Secretariat allowance, 120L.
Secretariat Assistant, F. J. Ribeiro, 335L—16L—350L—26L—600L.
Superintendent, Miscellaneous Branch, Paul Azu, 300L—12L—384L—16L—400L—20L—500L.
Superintendent, Registration Branch, L. R. J. Ruttermann, 300L—12L—384L—16L—400L—20L—500L.
Superintendent, Correspondence Branch, C. M. Holm, 300L—12L—396L.
Superintendent, Despatch Branch, A. W. Clerk, 300L—12L—396L.
Superintendent, Personnel Branch, H. H. Malm, 300L—12L—396L.

Native Affairs Department.
Secretary for Native Affairs, C. W. Welman, 1,350L, and 270L duty allowance.
Assistant Secretary for Native Affairs, J. C. de Graft Johnson, 375L, 425L by 25L to 600L by 36L to 780L.

Administrative and Political Service.
Chief Commissioner, Ashanti, John Maxwell, C.M.G., 1,600L, and duty allowance, 320L.
Chief Commissioner, Northern Territories, Maj. A. H. C. Walker Leigh, 1,600L, and duty allowance, 320L.
Provincial Commissioners, Major F. W. F. Jackson, C.M.G., D.S.O., L. Castellain, H. E. G. Bartlett and Capt. J. A. Ballantine, H. S. Newlands, A. J. Cutfield, Capt. R. S. Rattray, M.B.E. (super-numerary), W. J. A. Jones, 1,200L plus 240L duty allowance.

Deputy Provincial Commissioners, Capt. A. W. Norris, E. H. Bleasdale, A. C. D. Johnstone, H. W. Thomas, Lt.-Col. P. F. Whittall, D.S.O., C. E. Skene, 1,050L plus 210L duty allowance.

District Commissioners, and Assistant District Commissioners, G. R. Manners, W. R. Rainsford, Capt. E. T. Mansfield, E. O. Rake, Capt. A. S. Watt, G. B. Freeman, W. W. Kilby, A. W. Cardinal, G. H. Sumner-Wilson, Paymaster Comdr. S. W. Saxton, R.N. (retired), F. W. Applegate, A. F. E. Fieldgate, W. J. Pitt, W. E. Gilbert, M.C., C. E. E. Cockey, Lieut. A. F. L. Wilkinson, C. St. B. Shields, Major S. B. Jones, Capt. W. Price-Jones, M.C., L. W. Judd, T. R. O. Mangin, Capt. J. C. Warrington, Capt. V. J. Lynch, M.C., A. J. Walker, Capt. J. R. Ramsey, Major C. J. G. G. Cumine, D.S.O., Capt. R. C. Sumner, Capt. C. C. Lilley, Lt.-Col. G. H. Gibbs, M.C., Major R. W. Gosling, O.B.E., Paymaster Lieut. G. P. H. Bewes, Capt. O. F. Ross, E. A. Burner, Capt. J. R. Dickinson, M.C., C. S. Masser, C. O. Butler, Major J. S. R. Robertson, Capt. St. J. R. Eyre-Smith, M.C., Capt. J. V. W. Shaw, G. O. Parker, Capt. G. M. Puckridge, G. Hall, R. A. Brace Hall, B. D. Austin-Cathie, Capt. H. P. Dixon, F. P. Holtbaum, P. W. Rutherford, M.C., R. W. Sanderson, Major P. C. R. Moreton, D.S.O., J. E. Miller, R. E. Page, Capt. E. F. Burn, O.B.E., O. J. Collison, M.C., G. E. C. Wisdom, D. R. Caruth, Capt. J. A. Armstrong, D. R. Daltry, Lt.-Col. A. D. Cameron, D.S.O., M.C., Capt. G. Blackburne-Kane, G. D. Chamberlain, J. H. G. Way, E. N. Jones.

* Seconded for duty as Commissioner for Municipal Affairs.
Capt. H. G. Ardron, A. H. Williams, F. Drake-Brockman, J. P. W. Evershed, Capt. V. W. Bratton, W. H. Beeton, H. C. Ellershaw, Scale B.

Cadets, G. F. Mackay, P. C. B. Shireffs, H. V. Winshurst, D. A. Sutherland, R. W. Woolley, J. A. Prendergast, Scale B.

Chief Clerks, M. C. Hansen, M. O. Daane, J. Welsing, E. J. Steele, J. H. Mensah, 300l., by 12l. to 396l.

Judicial Department.

Chief Justice, Sir P. C. Smyly, LL.D., Kt., 2,000l. and 400l. duty allowance.

Puisne Judges, R. E. Hall, W. P. Michelin, A.B. Howes, S. S. Sawrey-Cookson, E. Gardiner-Smith, 1,400l. and 280l. duty allowance each.

Chief Registrar and Sheriff, J. F. St. A. Fawcett, 960l. plus 96l. duty allowance.

European Police Magistrates, C. A. Good, B. H. A. F. Berlyn, R. J. Manning, 720l. by 40l. to 960l. plus 72l. seniority allowance.

African Police Magistrates, C. R. W. Bannerman, O.B.E., and W. A. Renner, 960l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 840l. plus 72l. seniority allowance from 720l.

Divisional Court Registrars, Frank Vardon, J. B. Aikins, Samuel Bannerman, 300l. by 12l. to 396l.

Ashanti and Northern Territories Judiciary.

Circuit Judge, J. M. St. John Yates, 1,200l., and 240l. duty allowance.

Police Magistrates, F. J. J. F. McDowell, M. H. Tighe, 720l. by 40l. to 960l., plus 72l. seniority allowance.

Law Officers' Department.

Attorney-General, R. W. H. Wilkinson, K.C., 1,500l. and 300l. duty allowance.

Solicitor-General, J. de Hart, 1,100l. and 220l. duty allowance.

Crown Counsel, L. E. V. McCarthy, C. Furness Smith, H. Glyn Morgan, 720l. to 960l., and 72l. seniority allowance.

Chief Clerk, J. A. Tagoe, 300l. to 396l.

Printing Office.

Government Printer, T. D. Hewer, 630l. to 800l., and 72l. seniority allowance.

Assistant Government Printers, C. E. Heath, W. H. Crocker, A. Johnson and G. M. Hardie, 420l. to 600l. by 16l.

African Assistant Government Printer, M. G. Okai, 330l. to 480l. by 16l.

4 African Superintendents, D. E. Martins, J. A. Campbell and two vacancies, 300l. by 12l. to 396l.

Treasury Department.

Treasurer, C. W. Loose, 1,350l., and 270l. duty allowance.

Deputy Treasurer, R. E. Burns, 1,060l., and 210l. duty allowance.

Assistants, D. B. Hinson, H. Vane Percy, G. A. D. Davies, Capt. J. H. Stephens, M.C., F. A. C. Jones, and Major C. N. C. Field, M.C., Scale A.

African Assistants, F. L. J. Cato and Sam Baidoo, 375l., 425l. by 25l. to 600l. by 36l. to 780l.

Sub-Assistants, C. R. Hammond, Stephen Coleman, J. A. Sackey, M. F. Wristberg, and W. F. Hutchison, 300l. by 12l. to 396l.

Chief Clerk, A. L. Anteson, 300l. by 12l. to 396l.

Audit Department.

Auditor, W. Bowerley, 1,100l., duty allowance 220l., and personal allowance 100l.

Deputy Auditor, L. G. Corney, 960l. and duty allowance, 96l.

7 Assistant Auditors, W. L. MacKinnon, Capt. W. H. Lampriere, A. C. Hands, E. H. C. Lillierup, F. W. Power, E. A. Smith, and W. P. Legate, Scale A.

Chief Audit Clerk, V. C. Randolph, 330l. by 16l. to 360l., by 25l. to 600l., by 36l., to 780l.

Customs Department.

Comptroller, R. Sharpe, 1,200l., and 240l. duty allowance.

Deputy Comptroller, R. K. Gibbons, 1,060l., and 210l. duty allowance.

Provincial Collectors, S. R. Messum, Capt. A. D. Mackenzie, and H. E. Davis, 960l., and 96l. duty allowance.

Senior Collectors, D. R. M. May, N. D. Macbeth, and Capt. G. Paterson, M.M., Scale A. Collectors, A. M. Archer, A. J. Beckley, Capt. J. R. Braddick, M.C., Capt. H. W. R. Chandler, M.C., W. E. Cowley, J. L. O'Connor, M.C., G. J. Freeman, J. McLegan, J. Milne, P. G. E. A. Chevallier, Capt. C. L. d'Albani, G. H. Barracough, A. G. Simon, C. G. Packwood, Capt. C. W. Dann, M.C., H. G. Gowen, A. G. Davidson, Scale A., A. S. Dadzie, 330l. by 16l. to 360l. by 25l. to 600l. by 36l. to 780l.

Supervisors, S. D. Quaynor, M. Ashun, W. Taakye, Wm. Quansah, and T. L. Odamten, 300l. by 12l. to 396l.

Railway Department.

General Manager, R. H. Dawson, M.Inst.T., 1,500l. and 300l. duty allowance.

Deputy General Manager, R. Higham, 1,200l., and 240l. duty allowance.

Secretary to General Manager, F. J. Bush, Scale A.

Assistant Secretary to General Manager, E. J. Howard, Scale A. with maximum of 720l.

Chief Engineer, J. H. Dodd, A.M.I.C.E., 1,050l., and 210l. duty allowance.

District Engineers, D. W. Ridsdale, A. Thexton, A. C. Roberts, Scale C.

Assistant Engineers, F. V. Macdonald, A.M.I.C.E., W. J. O. Reeves, W. R. Clark, A.M.I.C.E., J. R. S. Sutherland, J. W. Moran, O.B.E., B.A., B.A.I., A.M.I.C.E., A. C. E. Anthony, P. A. Oppenheim, Scale C.

Draughtsman, A. A. Heath, Scale A. with maximum of 720l.

Foremen of Works, R. T. Hewit, S. F. Robinson, A. Ward, W. J. Blight, 500l. by 12l. to 590l.

Chief Mechanical Engineer, R. T. Kerr, M.I.Loco.E., A.M.I.Mech.E., 1,050l., and 210l. duty allowance.

Assistant Chief Mechanical Engineer, G. S. Simmons, 960l. and 96l. duty allowance.

District Locomotive Superintendents, F. P. O'Sullivan, Major C. R. Turner, Scale C.

Works Manager, C. T. Toft, 720l. to 920l. and 72l. seniority allowance.

Assistant Locomotive Superintendents, J. E. Cutforth, W. Venner, J. H. Burt, A. T. G. Power, Scale C.

Chief Draughtsman and Technical Instructor, R. G. Wickham, Scale A.

Loco. Office Superintendent, S. A. Muddle, Scale A. with maximum of 720l.

Locomotive Foremen, J. H. Hibbert, H. J. Kill, D. W. Noble, T. Taberner, J. Neary, G. R. Bruce, J. Hardstaff, S. Riley, 600l. by 12l. to 560l.

Chief Electrical Engineer, W. D. Frost, 800l. to 920l.; duty allowance, 80l.

Assistant Electrical Engineers, A. R. Townsend, M. H. Rooney, Scale C. with maximum of 720l.

Traffic Manager, T. R. Seddon, 1,050l., and 210l. duty allowance.

District Traffic Superintendents, W. E. Lewis, L. G. Tancock, W. Woods, Scale A.

For Scales A to F, see footnote on page 301.
Assistant Traffic Superintendents, W. L. Williams, A. Bennett, H. Macdonald, H. Munro, R. Creighton, W. Dickinson, W. Hill, A. C. Sykes, Scale A.

Senior District Station Masters, H. W. A. Mason, (1 vacancy), 500l. by 12l. to 560l.

District Station Masters, C. V. F. Brown, G. W. Stalg, A. Macmillan, R. J. Hudman, J. A. Smith, T. S. Brekon, E. Roberts, R. S. Cunningham, Scale F.

Chief Accountant, C. W. Foster, A.M.Inst.T., 1,050l. and 210l. duty allowance.

Senior Accountants, G. F. Browne, A. G. Moreton, 720l. to 920l.; seniority allowance, 72l.

Accountants, F. H. Brown, C. B. Hughes, G. Henderson, 600l. to 720l. and 800l., seniority allowance, 72l. from 720l.

Assistant Accountants, C. O. Parker, S. W. Arrowsmith, W. A. Hutchinson, E. Oldham, J. S. Birt, D. V. Summers, (1 vacancy), Scale A, with maximum of 720l.; J. W. Yorke, J. B. Vanderpuye, 335l.-780l.

Stock Verifier (vacant), Scale A, with maximum of 720l.

Printing Superintendent, T. Turner, 420l. to 600l.

Chief Storekeeper, F. C. Deacon, 800l. to 920l. and 90l. duty allowance.

Assistant Chief Storekeeper, J. G. Thomson, 720l. to 800l., seniority allowance, 72l.

Assistant Storekeepers, J. H. Pryer, T. H. Taylor, D. C. Bailey, (1 vacancy), Scale A, with maximum of 720l.

Store Accountant, B. W. Taylor, Scale A, with maximum of 720l.

Harbour Works Staff, Railway.

Assistant Engineer, L. G. Lloyd, Scale C.

General Foreman, J. T. Hoakins, 600l.

Foreman of Works, J. Merry, 500l. to 560l.

Railway Construction Staff.

Chief Resident Engineer, H. Prescott, 1,600l., field allowance, 120l., charge allowance, 150l. and bonus 50%.

Railway Extension Survey Staff.

Engineer-in-Charge, Major L. E. Silcox, D.S.O., 1,000l., 150l. duty allowance, 120l. field allowance.

District Engineers, G. D. Rae, E. G. Richards, 720l. to 920l., 72l. seniority allowance, 90l. field allowance.

Assistant Engineers, H. W. G. Drummond, J. B. Wise, F. R. Ridgewell, C. H. Silcox, G. E. H. Allen, (1 vacancy), 600l. to 720l. to 920l., 90l. field allowance, 72l. seniority allowance from 720l.

Posts and Telegraphs Department.

Postmaster-General, Major S. B. Goaling, 1,200l. and 240l. duty allowance.

Deputy Postmaster-General, Maj. W. T. E. Wallace, A.M.I.E.E., 1,000l., and 200l. duty allowance.

Chief Accountant, E. C. Crewe, 920l.; duty allowance, 80l.

Assistant Accountants, E. A. Martin, W. Emmett, and L. C. Saville, Scale A, with maximum of 720l.

Divisional Surveyors, V. Sutcliffe, S. Pope, H. Brooks, and District Surveyors, J. Youll, A. E. Stride, J. W. Webber, L. A. B. Small, J. Petrie, L. P. Wallis, D. McLennan, and E. A. Pocock, Scale A.

Head Storekeeper, Capt. A. Hastings, M.C., Scale A, with maximum of 720l.

Assistant Storekeepers, A. B. Cawthra (and 1 vacancy), Scale A, with maximum of 720l.

Telephone Exchange Superintendents, Miss M. T. Wood, Miss W. Murdochson, Miss M. E. Whittaker, 400l. by 15l. to 600l.

Telegraph Instructor (vacant), Scale C, with maximum of 920l.

Wireless Operators, L. C. C. Miles, A. W. Sparling, Scale C, with maximum of 720l.

Senior Division African Officers, J. E. Holdbrook, J. E. Abbey, P. F. Plange, G. M. Gunn, W. H. Smith-Mensah, W. F. Creppy, Albion Mends, D. C. Lamptey, A. C. Quest, and J. P. Baddoo, 300l. by 12l. to 396l.

Engineering Branch.

Engineer-in-Chief, D. B. Evans, 1,000l., and 200l. duty allowance.

Assistant Engineer-in-Chief, R. S. Baker, 960l. and 96l. duty allowance.

Divisional Telegraph Engineers, C. J. O'Callaghan, C. V. Close and J. L. Shearer, Scale C, with maximum of 920l.

Telegraph Engineers and Assistant Telegraph Engineers, L. G. M. Keevil, S. S. Kallaway, D. G. M. Lawson, W. S. Bailey, J. Macklin, D. H. MacKay, Scale C, with maximum of 800l.

Technical Instructor, vacancy, Scale C.

Assistant Technical Instructor, A. Duckering, one vacancy, Scale C.

Workshop Superintendent, W. Samples, Scale C, with maximum of 920l.

Senior Inspectors, C. P. Wills, E. J. Beare, 500l. by 12l. to 560l.

Inspectors, S. H. C. Scott, E. L. Claringbold, H. E. Mallowa, S. Hughes, R. J. Rigney, J. S. Page, F. H. Thompson (and two vacancies), Scale F.

Senior Mechanic, W. Foxcroft, 600l.

Mechanics, O. D. Smart, T. Tamcook, one vacancy, Scale F.

Telegraph Foremen, J. D. Evans, H. D. Coe, W. Gough, H. O. Hogben, H. H. Alder, C. W. Long, W. T. West, F. G. Taylor, R. A. Cook, A. E. Clarkson, three vacancies, Scale F.

Medical Department.

Director of Medical and Sanitary Services, W. J. D. Inness, 1,600l., and 320l. duty allowance.

Deputy Director of Medical and Sanitary Services, G. Hungerford, 1,400l., and 280l. duty allowance.

Assistant Directors of Medical Services, E. W. Wood-Mason, F. S. Harper, 1,300l., and 260l. duty allowance.

Specialists, A. J. R. O'Brien, 1,400l., and 280l. duty allowance; H. W. Gush, and one vacancy, 1,300l. and 260l. duty allowance.

Senior Medical Officers, J. M. O'Brien, E. M. Franklin, D. Duff, J. E. Moffatt, P. D. Oakley and R. Mugliston, 1,000l. to 1,160l., with seniority allowance of 100l.

Medical Officers, E. F. Ward and S. L. Brohier, 1,000l. to 1,150l., with seniority allowance of 100l. to 1,180l., with seniority allowance of 100l.; F. H. Cooke, T. R. Robertson, A. C. Paterson, J. R. Forde, P. Walsh, J. Byrne, B. Knowles, W. Spiteri, E. S. E. Maek, V. E. Critien, A. M. MacRea, A. G. Mackay, M. T. Cassidy, G. F. T. Saunders, M. de Bono, E. M. Fraser, O. G. Wilde, E. J. Daly, J. H. Matthews, F. W. Thompson, J. H. Pennman, F. M. Purcell, G. W. Vaughan, J. H. Owen-Flood, W. N. Greer, P. L. Gray, T. V. Fitzpatrick, M. MacSweeney, A. J. Hawe, F. S. Paterson, L. D. Quigley, F. McKernan, V. J. G. MacGregor, W. Chisholm, H. S. Townsend, J. F. Southward, H. G. Maguire, A. M. Gillespie, E. L. Sanders, six vacancies, 660l. to 960l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

Dental Surgeons, W. H. Donald, one vacancy, 660l. to 720l. to 960l., with seniority allowance of 72l.

For Scales A to F, see footnote on page 301.
African Medical Officers, A. F. Renner Dove, E. Tagoe, 500l. to 600l.
Junior African Medical Officer, Francisco Ribeiro, 400l.
Office Assistant and Accountant, F. G. Ashby, 450l. to 720l.
Radiographer and Mechanic, vacant, 800l.–90l.–720l.
Assistant Radiographer, A. Buckner, 400l. to 600l.
Analytical Chemists, R. Simmons and R. W. Clarke, 720l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l.
Dispensers' Instructor, C. J. Price, 500l. to 560l.
Medical Storekeeper, W. J. Phillips, 450l. to 720l.
Secretary, Gold Coast Hospital, L. C. Whitcombe, 415l., 430l., 450l.–720l.
Senior Nursing Sisters, L. J. Evans, H. F. Furley, G. M. Murphy and M. Rigney, 380l. to 440l., with seniority allowance of 40l.
Nursing Sisters, L. A. Marr, M. G. Le Bas, D. J. Taylor, C. E. Robinson, M. L. Brown, M. K. Parr, G. M. Spencer, E. L. Motta, F. Gibney, A. B. Bailey, M. E. Williams, V. Riggs, M. A. A. Swynnerton, M. M. E. Brodrick, E. D. Higham, E. M. Stringer, M. J. Shannon, S. M. E. Edwards, B. M. Head and M. Beesley, 250l. by 10l. to 300l., and 200l. by 10l. to 250l., and subsistence allowance of 5s. a day.
Chief Dispensers, F. W. C. Wulff and D. B. Odonkor, 300l. to 396l.
Chief Clerk, T. E. Hyde, 300l. to 396l.

Sanitation Branch.
Deputy Director of Sanitary Services, H. O'Hara-May, 1,300l. and 260l. duty allowance.
Senior Sanitary Officers, W. G. Watt, P. S. Selwyn-Clarke, M.C., M. B. Hay, 1,060l. to 1,200l., with duty allowance of 210l.
Medical Officers of Health, J. A. A. Duncan, H. C. E. Quin, W. M. Howells, D. Lennox, R. D. Reid, A. B. Monks, J. Hamilton, G. M. Minifie, and one vacancy, 800l. to 960l., with seniority allowance of 72l., and staff pay of 160l.
Women Medical Officers, A. M. K. O'Halloran, M. C. Chappell, Mrs. H. Vane-Percy, A. M. A. Downing, 660l. to 720l. to 960l.
Superintending Sanitary Inspectors, H. T. Lucas, E. G. Gray, P. P. Horn, V. R. Coe, W. R. Lawless, W. Gilling, G. Gilmore, R. G. Connolly, R. A. Jones, G. A. Scales, J. Harper, one vacancy, 400l. to 500l.
Chief Clerk, J. C. Barnor, 300l. to 396l.
Sanitary Inspector and Training Officer, C. M. G. Hoyte, 300l. to 396l.
Senior Division Sanitary Inspector, A. Quao Thompson, 300l. to 396l.

Medical Research Institute.
Director of Medical Research Institute, W. A. Young, 1,300l. with 260l. duty allowance.
Pathologists, A. S. Burgess and two vacancies, 1,000l. to 1,150l., with seniority allowance of 100l. and staff pay of 160l.
Assistant Pathologists, W. Thompson and G. Robinson, one vacancy, 800l. to 960l., with seniority allowance of 72l., and staff pay of 160l.
Medical Entomologist, A. W. J. Pomeroy, 1,000l., with 200l. duty allowance.
Laboratory Superintendent, F. Leeson, 480l. to 720l.
Laboratory Assistants, F. W. Abbott and S. F. Woodward, one vacancy, 440l. to 500l.

Public Cemeteries.
Registrar of Births and Deaths, H. O'Hara-May.

Veterinary Department.
Principal Veterinary Officer, Captain W. P. B. Beal, M.R.C.V.S., 960l., and 96l. duty allowance, and 100l. personal allowance.
Veterinary Officers, Captain J. L. Stewart, M.C., B.Sc., M.R.C.V.S., W. C. L. Orr, B.Sc., M.R.C.V.S., A. Fulton, M.R.C.V.S., J. McDonald, M.R.C.V.S., 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l., and 72l. seniority allowance from 720l.
Inspector of Livestock, Lieut. A. E. Miller, M.C., 480l. by 30l. to 720l.

Education Department.
Director of Education, D. J. Oman, O.B.E., V.D., 1,200l., duty allowance 240l., and personal allowance of 100l.
Deputy Director of Education, Major H. A. A. F. Harman, D.S.O., 1,060l., duty allowance 210l.
Assistant Director of Education, T. D. Cranston, 1,060l., duty allowance 210l.
Shorthand Instructor and Office Assistant, E. J. Enstone, Scale C, with maximum of 720l.
Office Assistant, E. Lester, Scale C, with maximum of 720l.
Chief Clerk, P. G. Clark, 300l. to 396l.
Provincial Inspector of Schools, A. Gardner, and Inspectors of Schools, Capt. A. B. Douglas, Capt. H. D. Harrison, W. J. D. Weddley, F. F. Womley, G. M. Smith, G. H. Ardill, J. Trevelyan, A. L. Brickwood-Smith, and three vacancies, Scale C.
African Inspectors of Schools, J. S. Garbrah and V. A. Tettey, 400l. by 25l. to 600l. by 36l. to 780l.
Cadet Inspector of Schools, J. A. Addo, 200l.
Organizer of Practical Education, V. W. Wright, Scale C.
Female Organizer of Girls' Schools, Miss D. B. Evans, Scale C.

Accra Technical School:
Principal, H. McLaren, 960l., duty allowance 96l.
Housemaster, W. R. Roberts, Scale C, with maximum of 720l.
European Masters, T. A. Calvin, W. T. Perrett, G. Sutton, Scale C, with maximum of 720l.

Junior Trade Schools:
Headmasters, J. S. McDermid, R. Hornsley, B. D. Burnett, J. Bevan, Scale C.

Government Primary Schools, Boys:
Head Masters, three vacancies, 400l. by 25l. to 600l. by 36l. to 780l.
Assistant Headmasters, I. S. Lamptey, J. Ayansu, 300l. by 12l. to 396l.

Government Primary Schools, Girls:
Head Mistresses, Miss E. W. Telfer and one vacancy, Scale C, with maximum of 720l.
African Headmistress, Miss M. K. Quartey-Papafio, 400l. by 25l. to 600l.
Assistant Headmistress, Miss H. Simons, 300l. to 396l.

Northern Territories.
Superintendent of Education, Rev. A. H. Candler, 960l., duty allowance 96l.
Inspectors of Schools, J. S. Dunn, one vacancy, Scale C.
European Headmistress, Miss E. B. Pitt, Scale C.
Headmaster, Junior Trade School, Yendi, Capt. H. G. Hendrie, Scale C.

For Scales A to F, see footnote on page 301.
Achimota College.

Principal, Rev. A. G. Fraser, 1,600l., duty allowance 320l.
Vice Principal, Rev. R. C. Blumer, 1,000l. by 50l. to 1,200l., duty allowance 200l.
Assistant Vice-Principal, Rev. C. K. Williams, and one vacancy, 1,000l., duty allowance, 200l.
Librarian, Rev. C. E. Stuart, Scale C.
Masters, Rev. R. Fisher, S. T. Dunstan and F. R. Irvine, Scale C.
Assistant Masters, A. Bolton, C. S. Deakin, W. E. F. Ward, A. G. Fraser, junr., G. A. Stevens, P. P. Brown, D. Bennies, J. Scragg, N. A. T. Young, E. S. Watson, W. J. K. Banner, D. T. Adams, H. C. Neill, D. G. R. Herbert, A. R. B. Fraser, C. P. Woodhouse, Capt. F. Maxwell Lawford, M.B.E., Scale C, A. H. R. Joseph (Games), Scale C, with maximum 720l., H. A. Barker (Arts and Crafts), Scale C, with maximum 600l.
Assistant Mistresses, L. M. Tucker, L. O. Deakin, M. Armstrong, H. E. S. Brewis, Scale C, with maximum 720l.
Kindergarten Mistress, A. M. Witten, 700l. by 30l. to 1,020l.
Physical Instructor, J. H. Rignell, 500l. by 20l. to 600l.
Senior Bursar, A. D. W. Skinner, 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 980l.
Junior Bursar, W. P. Gunn, 400l. by 16l. to 430l. by 30l. to 600l.
Matron, Hon. Miss M. M. H. Scott, Miss M. I. Williams, Scale C, with maximum of 600l.

Department of Agriculture.

Headquarters.

Director of Agriculture, C. H. Knowles, B.Sc. (Lond.), 1,200l., plus 240l. duty allowance.
Deputy Director of Agriculture, G. G. Auchinleck, M.Sc. (McGill), F.L.C., 1,000l., plus 200l. duty allowance.
Secretary, J. M. Dunbar, Scale A, with maximum of 720l.

Research Branch.

Assistant Director of Agriculture for Research, R. H. Bunting, F.L.S., 960l., plus 96l. duty allowance and 100l. personal allowance.
Mycologist, H. A. Dade, A.R.C.S., 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l., with 72l. seniority allowance from 720l.
Entomologist, W. H. Patterson, M.B.E., G. S. Cotterell, A.R.C.S., D.I.C., F.E.S., 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l., with 72l. seniority allowance from 720l.
Agricultural Chemists, Capt. R. Coull, B.Sc. (Edin.), and one vacancy, 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l., with 72l. seniority allowance from 720l.
Botanist (vacant), 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l., with 72l. seniority allowance from 720l.

Provincial Staff.

Provincial Superintendent, A. C. Miles, C. Saunders, N.D.A., N.D.D., A. B. Culham, A. W. Paterson, N.D.A., N.D.D. and Capt. G. C. Coull, B.Sc. (Edin.), Scale C.
Superintendent, G. H. Eady, W. C. Fishlock, J. Steele, M.C., N.D.A., N.D.D., H. K. Hewison, H. Nicholas, B.A., Scale C.
Assistant Superintendent, W. H. Beckett, M.A. (Cantab.), N. P. Chamney, B.Sc. (Lond.), J. C. Muir, B.Sc. (Glasgow), N.D.A., N.D.D., F. A. Robb, B.Sc. (Edin.), N.D.A., B. T. Steenson, B.A. (Oxon), E. M. Cook, M.S.E.A.C., J. E. Symond, J. M. Wingate, J. L. Scott, B.Sc. (Edin.), Scale C.
African Assistant Superintendent, J. S. Martinson, 400l. by 25l. to 600l. by 36l. to 780l.

Agricultural and Forestry Training Centre.

Superintendent, T. Hunter, Scale C.
Assistant Superintendent, W. T. O. Maidment, B.A. (Cantab.), Scale C.

Sisal Plantation.

Superintendent (vacant), Scale C with maximum of 600l.

Communal Coconut Plantations.

2 Coconut Instructors, P. A. Harft, and one vacancy 300l.

Plant Sanitation.

Inspectors of Plants, S. T. Phillips, W. R. Hudson, F. Pyatt, J. B. Bedingfield, D. V. Parkes, H. L. Hill, G. D. Ross, E. D. Hill, L. J. Packham, A.R.C.S., C. J. Pym, and four vacancies, Scale C with maximum of 600l.

Cotton Development.

Temporary Assistant Superintendent, J. T. H. Stein, B.Sc. (Edin.), 480l.

Forestry Department.

Conservator of Forests, L. A. King-Churoh, 1,200l., duty allowance 240l.
Deputy Conservator of Forests, J. R. P. Gent, 960l., duty allowance, 96l.
Assistant Conservators of Forests, Capt. R. W. Brent, M.C., N. T. Garnett, P. G. Arnold, Capt. G. S. Greene, L. C. Rowney, J. A. Wills, F. Burnett, C. Vigne, J. D. MoAinsh, H. W. Moor, A. J. Cox, G. M. Tolmie, W. T. S. Brown, H. J. A. Res, Scale C.
European Foresters, H. G. MacKay, L. V. Wilcox, B. Bennett, Scale F.

Mines Department.

Secretary for Mines, W. F. Holmes, B.A., F.G.S., A.R.S.M., A.R.C.S., M.I.M.M., 1,200l., and 240l. duty allowance.
Senior Inspector of Mines (vacant), 960l., and 96l. duty allowance.
Inspector of Mines, Capt. R. P. Wild, F.G.S., M.I.M.M., Scale C.
Inspector of Machinery, P. V. R. Bray, A.M.I.Mech.E., A.M.I.Mar.E., Scale C.

Geological Survey.

Director of Geological Survey, Sir Albert E. Kitson, Kt., C.M.G., C.B.E., F.G.S., F.R.G.S., M.I.M.M., M.Aust.I.M.M., 1,200l., and duty allowance, 240l.
Assistant-Director of Geological Survey (vacant), 960l., duty allowance 96l.
Personal Assistant, W. J. Felton, B.Sc.(Econ.), F.R.Econ.S., Scale A, with maximum 720l.
Geologists, W. G. G. Cooper, B.Sc., F.G.S., A.R.C.S., A.I.M.M., O. A. L. Whitelaw, F.R.G.S., M.I.M.M., F. Oates, M.B.E., B.Sc., A.R.S.M., A.I.C., 540l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l., plus seniority allowance 72l. from 720l.
Superintendent of Records (London Office), W. T. James, 600l.

For Scales A to F, see footnote on page 301.
Gold Coast Regiment, W.A.F.F.

Commanding Officer, Lieut.-Colonel I. H. Macdonell, D.S.O.

Second in Command, Major N. P. Shand, M.C.

Adjutant, Capt. D. S. Marchant, M.C.

Assistant Adjutant, Lieut. H. A. Fitt.

Quartermaster, Capt. C. R. Smith.

Battery Commander, Capt. G. H. Wateridge, R.A.

Intelligence Officer, Capt. S. C. Askwith, R.A.

O.C. Signal School, Lieut. J. S. Wallace, R.A.

Volunteers.

Officer Commanding, Capt. D. J. Oman, V.D.

Assistant and Musketry Instructor, Capt. A. Johnson, R. of O., Loyal Regt.

Gold Coast Defence Force.

Staff Officer, Capt. C. E. Hamilton.

Staff Sergeant, Coy. Sgt-Major J. Morgan, M.M.

Police Department.

Inspector General of Police, Lt.-Col. H. W. M. Bamford, O.B.E., M.C., 1,200l., and 240l. duty allowance.

Deputy Inspector General of Police, E. W. de T. Provost, 960l., and 96l. duty allowance.

Staff Officer, G. A. Champion, Scale A.

Inspector of Weights and Measures, H. Inman, 450l.

by 15l. to 600l.

Chief Clerk, H. Geo. Annan, 300l. by 12l. to 396l.

Director, Criminal Investigation Department (vacant), 960l., and 96l. duty allowance.

Assistant Director, Criminal Investigation Department, A. W. G. Moorman, Scale A.

Commissioners and Assistant Commissioners of Police, Capt. L. S. D. H. Venour, B. C. Sanderson, Capt. C. Thomas, V. E. R. de Carteret, H. J. O'Connor, Capt. E. K. W. Thompson, W. S. Galloch, A. P. Taylor, M.C., Major F. L. Hamilton, M.C., E. F. L. Penn, J. C. Piegrome, M.C., Capt. H. M. Mitchell, M.C., N. S. Mansergh, Capt. J. W. S. Barlow, C. E. Duruty, P. Eckel, M. L. Fraser, Major H. E. Smith, M.C., Capt. D. S. Gowing, J. E. Workman, J. P. Gildea, Capt. C. E. Wingrove, R. Tottenham, Scale A.

African Assistant Commissioners of Police, W. H. Simmons, W. Callender, 375l., 420l. by 25l. to 600l. by 36l. to 780l.

Prisons Department.

Director of Prisons, Capt. O. L. Hancock, O.B.E., 960l., and 96l. duty allowance.

Deputy Director of Prisons, H. J. L. Cavemagh, 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l. and 72l. duty allowance.

Senior Prison Superintendent, J. Concannon and B. A. Francois, 540l.-30l.-720l.

Prison Superintendent, C. H. Conn, A. J. Avenan, J. H. Conibear, Scale F.

Technical Instructor, A. A. Wood, J. T. Mills, 500l.-12l.-560l.

Assistant Prison Superintendent, P. H. Roberts, 235l.-15l.-340l.

Chief Clerk, K. Kameron Sackey, 300l.-12l.-396l.

Survey Department.

Headquarters.

Surveyor General, J. Clendinning, B.Sc., A.M.I.C.E., 1,200l., plus 240l., duty allowance.

Deputy Surveyor General, F. W. Mindham, B.Sc., F.R.G.S., F.R.A.I., 1,050l. plus 210l. duty allowance.

Office Assistant, P. G. Macdonald, Scale A, maximum 720l.

Records and Reproduction.

Record Keeper and Cartographer, F. C. Blake, Scale C.

Chief Draughtsman, A. F. R. Morris, Scale C, maximum 800l.

Draughtsman, Sergt. W. T. Harrington, R.E., 500l. to 560l. by 12l.

Chief Lithographer, G. Fisher, Scale C, maximum 720l.

Lithographic Draughtsman, Cpl. T. M. Smith, R.E., 500l. to 560l. by 12l.

Lithographic Prover and Vanderker, Loc.-Sgt. H. R. Dunn, R.E., 500l. to 560l. by 12l.

Lithographic Printer, J. L. Henderson, 500l. to 560l. by 12l.

Survey School.

Instructor, W. Cutland, Scale C.

Surveyor, C. E. Gibson, Scale C.

Field Supervising Staff.

Field Supervisors, Capt. S. C. Saward, M.C., M.M., Capt. R. L. Brown, 960l. plus 96l. duty allowance.

Cadastral Branch.

Headquarters.

Computer and Examiner, B. P. Riddett, Scale C.

Computer, F. Yates, Scale C.

Chief Draughtsman, L/Sgt. G. Meredith, R.E., Scale C, maximum 800l.

Provincial Survey Sections.

Surveyors, P. Hallahan, K. M. Vaughan, C. R. Petty, M. W. Hayes, W. Gommell, E. W. Kenward, Major E. W. Nasham, and one vacancy, Scale C.

Surveyors and Inspectors of Lands, Capt. C. L. M. Donet, B.Sc., G. C. L. Chamberlain, Scale C.

African Surveyors, K. Asante, A. A. Young, 400l. by 25l. to 600l. by 36l. to 780l.

Supernumerary Surveyors (Temporary Assistance), J. F. W. Plascott, and two vacancies, Scale C.

Topographical Branch.

Surveyors, G. C. Rogerson, and one vacancy, Scale C.

Special Cadastral Framework Party.

Surveyors, Lieut. F. B. Baines-Hewitt, R.E., and one vacancy, 720l. to 920l. by 40l., plus 72l. seniority allowance.

Special Topographical Survey and International Boundary Surveys.

Officer in Charge (vacant), 960l. plus 96l. duty allowance.

Surveyor (Wireless Officer), Capt. J. F. Phipps, R.E., 960l. plus 96l. duty allowance.

Camp Officer, Lieut. F. O. Metford, R.E., and three vacancies, 720l. to 920l. by 40l., plus 72l. seniority allowance.

Forest Reserves Boundary Survey.

Surveyors, Lieut. E. R. Green, R.E., Capt. F. K. Stranack, M.C., R.E., 720l. to 920l. by 40l., plus 72l. seniority allowance.

Lands Department.

Commissioner of Lands (vacant), 1,200l., plus 240l. duty allowance.

Deputy Commissioner of Lands (vacant), 1,050l., plus 210l. duty allowance.

For Scales A to F see footnote on page 301.
Assistant Commissioners of Lands, W. L. Shepley-Taylor, G. W. Staapole, and four vacancies, Scale C.

Executive Officer (vacant), Scale C.

Northern Territories Constabulary.

Commandant, Capt. J. Massie, 960l., duty allowance, 98l.

Adjutant, Major C. T. Williams, O.B.E., 600l.-30l.-720l.-40l.-920l., duty allowance 72l.

Assistant Commandants, Major B. A. S. Bennett, Lieut. W. M. Harrington, M.C., M.M. (one vacancy), Scale A.

Transport Department.

Chief Transport Officer, R. Nichols, A.M.Inst.T., 720l.-40l.-920l., plus 80l. duty allowance.

Engineer Transport Officers, A. H. Crickhank, Capt. E. Doole, R.E., Capt. W. T. C. Riley, Capt. H. A. Jarred, Scale C, 480l.-510l.-920l., plus 72l. seniority allowance from 720l.

Accountant, J. A. Kelly, Scale A, maximum 720l.

European Filter (vacant), Scale F.

African Assistant Transport Officers, T. Abraham and J. K. Ansah, 300l. to 396l. by 12l.

Public Works Department.

I. Direction.

Director of Public Works, E. H. D. Nicolls, O.B.E., A.M.I.C.E., F.R.Met.Soc., 1,600l., plus 300l. duty allowance.

Deputy Director of Public Works, J. D. Sharman, M.I.Mun. & Cy.E., 1,200l., plus 240l. duty allowance.

Assistant Directors of Public Works, E. P. Brown, Major S. Banks Keast, M.C., R.E. (O.), M.I.S.E., M.R.S.I., F.R.G.S., 960l., plus 96l. duty allowance and 100l. personal allowance; Wm. Miller (seconded to Takoradi Harbour), 960l., plus 96l. duty allowance.

Secretary, H. F. Skelton, Scale A, maximum 720l.

Stock Verifier, F. Barlow, Scale A, maximum 800l.

Estate Officer, J. O. Plange, 360l.-20l.-450l.

II. Provincial Engineering Staff.

Senior Provincial Engineer, H. Gayton, F.S.I., A.M.Q.S.A., 960l., plus 96l. duty allowance.

Provincial Engineers, M. F. Inglis, A.M.I.C.E.(Ireland), S. Gifford, Capt. D. R. Mackie, M.C., A.M.I.C.E., (one vacancy), Scale C, with 92l. duty allowance.

Executive Engineers, J. R. Fallowfield (Resident Engineer, Cape Coast Water Supply), A.M.I.C.E., M.I.M.E., L. M. Grover, A.M.I.C.E. (Ireland), M.S.E., P.A.S.I., M.R.S.I., H. Dyson, A.M.I.C.E., E. M. W. Williams, G. C. Cuthbert, J. C. Renshaw, F.S.I., F.R.G.S., M.Geol.Assn., A.M.L.E., J. P. Ede, T. A. Finch, B.A., B.A.L., A.M.I.C.E., G. W. Randall, H. Williams, A. J. Kitchener, J. T. Longstaff, A.M.I.Mun. & Cy.E., A. Holland, A.M.E.I.C. (Canada), E. Govett, R. M. Fisher, H. O. Hooper, J. Cumming, H. Darnell, W. J. Goldfinch (Municipal Engineer), A.M.I.San.E., A.R.S.I., N. J. Silcock, A.M.I.C.E. (Australia), W. A. Cowaney, B.Sc., A.M.I.C.E., T. L. Bowring, C. J. Rigby, B.Sc. (Eng.), G. F. Stewart, Major C. Alderson, D.S.O., B.Sc. (Eng.), J. W. Watts, J. W. Croxford, M.I.M. & C.E., A. T. R. Grimson, A. Drury, B.E., Scale C.

African Probationer Engineer, M. H. Addy, 400l.-20l.-500l.

Chief Inspectors of Works, C. E. Webb, O. Jelly, A. L. Hacket, 600l.

Inspectors of Works, Grade I, W. Jacob, A. Stother, F. J. Neel, W. J. Twydell, A. H. M. Harding, E. H. Brewer, F. J. Duval, J. H. MacGillivray, E. A. Bradfield, J. Hall, W. C. Boniface, J. M. Robertson, B. O. W. Cantrell, T. Simpson, A. N. Strachan, J. Williamson, A. T. Wood, A. E. Tromp, W. H. Smith, W. H. J. Whatley, C. Smith, E. Tomes, H. Dinsdale, 500l.-12l.-560l.

Inspectors of Works, Grade II., J. G. F. England, W. N. Waterson, W. C. Lee, R. J. Fry, G. A. Millbank, W. MacFarlane (seconded to Accra Town Council), R. West, 400l.-12l.-500l.

Workshops Foreman, G. Taylor, 600l.

Foremen of Works, J. Bailey, P. Reid, J. D. Mitchell, J. W. Hopper, E. S. Jenkins, M. L. Manuel, J. W. Snowdon, A. J. Bannister, C. Featherstone, T. M. Ritchie, A. W. Garden, J. Wilkins, H. A. Peters, W. Quinlan, W. T. H. Lewis, C. A. Ford, J. W. Green, A. Harrison, M.C., 400l.-12l.-500l.

African Foremen of Works, E. G. Quartey, J. M. Hudson, 250l.-10l.-350l.

III. Public Health Engineering Staff.

Senior Public Health Engineer, P. Hall, A.M.I.C.E., 960l., plus 96l. duty allowance.

Public Health Engineers, W. G. Jamieson, B.Sc., W. R. Sheffield, A.M.I.C.E., 600l.-920l.

Foreman of Works (Drainage), H. E. Jarvis, Scale F.

Maintenance Engineers, J.H.Armstrong, M.I.Struct.E., S. M. Colman, A.M.I.C.E., W. S. Saunders, A.M.I.C.E., Scale C.

Building Inspector, A. C. Fairbrother, Scale A, maximum 720l.

Filter Superintendent, J. F. Wiggett, 600l.

Distribution Foremen, J. A. Grove, F. F. Grove, T. Powles, A. W. J. Taylor, 500l.-12l.-660l.; one at 400l.-12l.-600l.

Engineering Chemist, H. E. Course, A.I.C., Scale C, with 72l. seniority allowance.

Senior Hydraulic Engineer, Capt. C. Wilson Brown, M.C., A.R.T.C. (Glasgow), F.R.G.S., A.M.I.C.E., 960l. plus 96l. duty allowance.

Assistant Engineers, G. Little (vacant), Scale C.

IV. Mechanical Engineering Staff.

Chief Mechanical Engineer, G. A. Pickles, Scale C, plus 80l. duty allowance.

Mechanical Engineers, G. B. Morgan, A.M.I.M.E., F. Hinton, J. C. L. Taylor, T. F. Quinlan, Scale C.

General Fitters, J. W. Stevenson, R. J. Gregg, H. A. Dalgleish, S. H. Barnett, H. Leigh, J. H. Hill, J. McNeill, W. J. Arscott, J. Maiden, H. Pank, D.C.M., B. T. Townsend, R. Macaulay, W. J. Phillips, at 500l.-12l.-560l.; or Scale F.

V. Architectural and Drawing Office Staff.

Chief Architect, W. F. Hodges, O.B.E., F.R.I.B.A., M.I.Struct.E., F.S.Arch., 960l. plus 96l. duty allowance.

Assistant Chief Architect, I. B. Pite, M.A., A.R.I.B.A.

European Draughtsmen, E. F. Carey, J. R. W. Reid, Lic.R.I.B.A., A.M.I.Struct.E., C. S. Moyle, A.R.I.B.A., A.M.I.Struct.E., C. A. G. Mandel, Scale C, maximum 800l.

Structural Engineer, H. Cooper, M.I.Struct.E., Scale C.

Engineering Draughtsman, C. W. H. Lawrence, Scale C, maximum 800l.

Quantity Surveyors, R. P. Bush, Lic.R.I.B.A., A.M.I.Struct.E., L. A. Hagen, P.A.S.I., Scale C, maximum 800l.

For Scales A to F, see footnote on page 301.
VI. Accounting and Storekeeping Staff.

(a) Headquarters Accounting Staff.

Chief Accountant, H. E. Dean, 800l.–40l.–920l., plus 80l. duty allowance.
Assistant Chief Accountant, E. V. Adams, F.R.C.A., Scale A, maximum 800l.
Assistant Accountant, J. D. Haugh, Scale A, maximum 800l.

(b) Headquarters Storekeeping Staff.

Chief Storekeeper, J. T. E. Kramer, 800l.–40l.–920l., plus 80l. duty allowance.
Assistant Accountants, T. M. Logan, M.M., H. A. Steedman, Scale A, maximum 800l., R. E. Hunt, Scale A, maximum 720l.
Mechanical Storekeepers, J. L. G. Jones, and one vacancy, Scale A, maximum 800l.

(c) Provincial Accounting and Stores Staff.

Assistant Accountants, T. Lever, E. A. Jacob, L. W. Bowden, Scale A, maximum 800l., J. A. Hutchinson, Scale A, maximum 720l.

VII. Electric Light and Power Staff.

Chief Electrical Engineer, Major J. S. Thain, M.C., 720l.–40l.–920l., plus 80l. duty allowance.
Electrical Engineers, G. H. C. Stupart, A.M.I.E.E., B. McGuckin, B.Sc., A.M.I.C.E., Scale C.
Electrical Fitters, W. H. Evans, W. Allan, G. Wilkins, A. H. Clarke, J. O. Haswell, V. Longden, E. Fitton, J. E. Atkinson, W. H. Greenall, F. J. Smith, W. Beatty, G. B. Jones, at 600l.–12l.–560l., or Scale F.
Assistant Accountant, J. H. F. Meacham, Scale A, maximum, 720l.

Special Staffs for Municipal Engineering Works.

Municipal Engineer, Capt. W. J. Goldfinch, A.M.I.San.E., A.R.S.L., Scale C.
Inspector of Works, W. MacFarlane, Scale F.
Building Inspectors, T. E. J. King, H. O. Ventress, J. H. Hutchinson, R. H. Phillips, W. Studholme, M. Holdsworth, A. C. Fairbrother, M.C., Scale A, maximum 800l.

Kumasi Town Engineering Branch.

Assistant Engineer, F. S. Drake, B.Sc., and two vacancies, Scale C.
Foreman of Works, F. C. Holman, Scale F.
Building Inspector, F. A. Grant, H. L. Evans, Scale A, maximum 720l.

African Subordinate Staff.

Chief African Draughtsman, J. Q. Solomon, 300l.–12l.–396l.
Sub-Assistant Accountants, D. J. Thorpe, B. Y. Quamhie, D. Sackey, J. O. Renner, J. De Graft (vacant), 300l.–12l.–396l.
Superintendent of Correspondence Branch, G. A. Yankah, 300l.–12l.–396l.

Harbours Staff.

Takoradi.

Chief Resident Engineer, W. Miller, 1,250l. with duty allowance, 250l.
Assistant Resident Engineer, W. Hewitt, 1,050l. with duty allowance 210l.
Assistant Engineer, D. G. Anderson, 860l. plus 83l. duty allowance.
Secretary, A. Maxwell Hicks, 540l.
Inspector of Works (Diving), F. Law, 580l. plus 48l. diving allowance.
Inspectors of Works, C. W. W. Early, C. E. W. Hockin, G. H. Gardner, 580l.

For Scales A to F, see footnote on page 301.

