THE GOLD COAST.

THE GOLD COAST COLONY.

Situation and Native Tribes.

The Gold Coast Colony, with Ashanti, the Protected Northern Territories, and Togoland under British Mandate, is situated on the Gulf of Guinea, between 3° 7' W. long. and 1° 14' E. long., and is bounded on the west by the French colony of the Ivory Coast, on the east by Togoland under French Mandate, on the north by the French Colony of the Upper Volta, and on the south by the sea.

The area of the Colony is 23,937 square miles, of Ashanti, 24,379, of the Northern Territories, 30,486, and of Togoland under British Mandate, 13,041.

The Colony is inhabited by a large number of tribes, whose customs and forms of government are of a more or less similar character. Each tribe has its own head chief and every town or village of the tribe a chief or headman.

The head chiefs and chiefs form the council of the tribe, and assist in dealing with matters affecting its general welfare. The succession to the chiefs' stools is for the most part in the female line, the heir to the stool being selected from among the sons of the occupant's sisters, his brothers and the male off-spring of his aunts on the father's side.
The principal sea coast states are the following:—Nzima, Ahanta, Sekondi, Komenda, Edina, Oguaa, Winneba, Assin Gomoa, Ga, Adangme, Awusa and Agbosome.

In the interior of the Colony the principal states are:—Aowin, upper and lower Wasaw, Sefwi, upper and lower Denkera, Tufel, Assen, Esikuma, Ajumako, Birim Akim Abuakwa and Birim Kwahu, Akim Kotoku, Akwapim, eastern and western Krobo, Akwamu, Kepri, Shai and Ningo.

A number of different languages and dialects are spoken, the principal being, Twi, Fanti, Ewe and Ga; but the use of English is widespread.

For the purposes of administration the Colony is divided into three provinces, each presided over by a Provincial Commissioner. These Provinces are further divided into districts, presided over by District Commissioners. Most of these Officers perform judicial duties as magistrates in addition to being in administrative charge of their districts. The districts are as follows:—

1. Western province.—Districts—Axim, Ankobra, Tarkwa, Sekondi-Dixcove, Sefwi and Aowin.

2. Central province.—Districts—Cape Coast, Saltpond, Winneba, Western Akim.

3. Eastern province.—Districts—Accra, New Juaben, Akwapim, Volta River, Ketu-Ada, Birim Akim-Abuakwa and Birim Kwahu, Ho (Togoland).

History.

It is said that as early as the reign of Edward I. (1272-1307) English navigators made voyages to the Gold Coast, and that a hundred years later French adventurers reached the coast, who, about 1384, built several lodges or forts, one being at Elmina, parts of which are supposed to have been subsequently incorporated in the present castle there. No definite evidence however exists to support these claims, although it is quite possible they are both correct; indeed, the natives until quite recently used to point out a hill near Takoradi as the site of a French fort built there many years ago. For our earliest knowledge of the Gold Coast we are indebted to the Portuguese navigators of the later years of the 14th and first part of the 15th centuries. They had been slowly extending their voyages down the West Coast of Africa, and it is recorded that in 1471 Juan de Santerem and Pedro d'Escoobar traded for gold in the neighbourhood of Elmina or Chama. They made the first European settlement eleven years later, when an expedition under Diego d'Azumbuja built and garrisoned the fort San Jorge da Mina (Elmina), the materials for which he brought with him from Portugal. Several other settlements were founded, and the country was claimed for the King of Portugal by virtue of a Papal Bull granted in 1430, which gave to Portugal all the islands already discovered and all future discoveries in Guinea. This Bull was confirmed by Pope Sextus IV. a few years after the foundation of Elmina. The Portuguese remained in undisputed possession for over fifty years until British merchant adventurers commenced trading on the coast, the earliest voyages of which records remain being those of Thomas Windham and Antonio Aes Pinzado, in 1553, John Lok, in 1564, and William Towrson, in 1565, 1566 and 1568. The British made no settlements at this time and their trade soon lapsed altogether until the early years of the 17th century. The Dutch, however, who made their first appearance on the coast in 1595, rapidly became serious rivals of the Portuguese and practically terminated their occupation by capturing Elmina in 1637, and Fort St. Anthony at Axim in 1642. After the activities of the Elizabethan sailors and merchant companies had come to an end, the English connection with the Gold Coast was revived by the efforts of a series of merchant companies, the first of which, called the "Company of Adventurers of London trading into Africa" was founded in 1618, but did not enjoy a successful career. Another company was formed in 1631, which established the first British fort on the coast at Kormantin, and lodges at several other places. This company was engaged in the slave trade, as were also the other European nations. Its charter was renewed in 1651, but in 1662 a new company was incorporated as the "Company of Royal Adventurers of England trading to Africa." Settlements were formed at Anomabu, Accra, and at Cabo Corso (Cape Coast), at which place the castle was built about this time by the English, although the Portuguese probably had a lodge there earlier. Three other European nations succeeded in acquiring territories on the Gold Coast, viz.:—The Swedes, the Brandenburgers, and the Danes. The first-mentioned built the fort of Christiansborg, near Accra about 1645, but were driven out by the Danes in 1657, and retired from the Coast. The Brandenburgers established "Fort Great Fredericksburg" at Princes River in 1683, and "Fort Dorothes" at Akwida in 1685, but their enterprise does not seem to have been prosecuted with much vigour, and was finally abandoned in 1720, their possessions falling into the hands of the Dutch. The Danes, however, after first selling the Fort at Christiansborg to the Portuguese, and re-buying it three years later, rapidly improved their position, building forts at several stations to the East of Accra, as far as Ada and Ketu, and exercising a kind of Protectorate over Akwapim, and the Volta River district.

The third English Company was not successful. The Dutch traders spared no efforts to get rid of their rivals, and in consequence of their aggression, an expedition was sent by Charles II. in 1664, under the command of Captain Holmes, which recaptured Cape Coast, taken the previous year by the Dutch, and all the other Dutch forts, with the exception of Elmina and possibly Axim. In the following year, however, the Dutch Commander de Ruyter recaptured all the lost Dutch forts, with the exception of Cape Coast; and the treaty of Breda, 1667, left affairs in the Gold Coast in this condition. The fourth English Company was incorporated in the year 1672 under the name of the "Royal African Company of England." Under its influence English interests steadily advanced, and forts were established at Dixcove, Sekondi, Komenda, Anomabu, Tamtamkweri, Winneba, Accra. The abolition of the exclusive privileges which the Royal African Company enjoyed, led to its decline and eventual dissolution in 1752. By the Acts of Parliament 23 George II., c. 31, and 25 George II., c. 40, a fifth trading Corporation, called the "Afican Company of Merchants," was formed, the membership of which was open to all British traders on payment of a fee of 40/-, compensation being paid for its charter and property to the Royal African Company. An annual subsidy was granted by Parliament to the newly-formed Company, until 1821, when by the Act 1 & 2 George IV., c. 28, the Company was dissolved and its possessions vested in the Crown, and placed under the Government of the West African Settlement, the seat of government being at Sierra Leone.
In 1824, the Governor of Sierra Leone, Sir Charles Macarthy, on visiting Cape Coast Castle, found the neighbouring country of the Fantis in possession of the Ashantis. He formed the resolution of inciting the Fantis against their oppressors, and led an army of them, with a few disciplined soldiers, against the Ashantis at Insamankow, where, on the 24th of January, 1824, he was killed, and his force totally routed.

The war which ensued was ended by the victory of the English at Dodowa, near Accra, in 1826. Peace was formally concluded by a tripartite Treaty in 1831, between the English, the Fantis, and the Ashantis.

In the meantime, Her Majesty's Government had inclined to the policy of retiring from the coast altogether, and after the peace they actually transferred the government of the forts to the local and London merchants interested, who secured as their Governor Mr. George Maclean, a man of marked energy and capacity. This gentleman, with a force of no more than 100 men at command, and with a Government subsidy of only 4,000£ a year, contrived to extend and maintain the influence of his Government over the whole tract of country now known as the Gold Coast. In 1843, it having been suspected that the Merchant Government connived at the slave trade, the forts were resumed by the Crown, and a Lieutenant-Governor was appointed. Mr. Maclean was continued in the direction of native affairs, under the title of Judicial Assessor to the Native Chiefs, which post he held until his death in 1847.

Hitherto the forts of the various nations were intermixed with each other, and there was no defined limit as to where the influence of one or the other began or ended. The imposition of Customs duties was rendered difficult, if not impossible, by the existence of the free ports of a rival nation within a stone's throw, as it were, of the duty ports. On the 24th of January, 1850, by Letters Patent, the Settlements on the Gold Coast ceased to be dependencies of Sierra Leone, and in the same year, by the purchase of the forts and protectorate of the Danes, the Coast line from Christiansborg to Keta and the districts of Shai, eastern and western Krobo, Akwapim, Akwamu, and Krepi, were acquired by England. By a Commission dated the 19th February, 1866, the Gold Coast Settlements were reunited to the Colony of Sierra Leone under one Governor-in-Chief. In 1867, a convention was made with the Dutch by which the portion of the Coast lying to the west of the Sweet River, which flows into the sea between Cape Coast and Elmina, was allotted to Holland, England taking all the territory to the east of the river, and a customs union between the two nations was established. The Dutch, however, found many difficulties in the way of their occupation of the forts and possessions received from the English in exchange for those of their own lying to the East of the boundary line. The native tribes refused to recognise their authority, and the prospect before them was that of a long series of petty wars with no reasonable hope of profit to be gained in the future. The result was the convention made between England and Holland in 1871, by which the Dutch transferred all their forts and possessions on the Coast to the English, and Great Britain obtained at last the sole sovereignty and control of the territory from Half-Assinie to Afiac. The forts were transferred on the 6th of April, 1872.

At the conclusion of peace with the King of Ashanti in 1874, measures were taken for placing the Government of the Gold Coast upon a better footing. A new charter was issued dated the 24th of July, 1874, separating Her Majesty's Settlements of the Gold Coast (which was defined as comprising all places, settlements and territories which might at any time belong to H.M. in Western Africa between the 5th degree of west longitude and the 2nd degree of east longitude) and Lagos from those of Sierra Leone and creating them into one Colony under the style of the Gold Coast Colony under a Governor in Chief, with an Administrator at Lagos. There was one Executive Council and one Nominated Legislative Council for the two Settlements and one Supreme Court. On 6th of August, 1874, an Order in Council was made conferring on the new Legislative Council of the Gold Coast Colony power to enact Ordinances to give effect to all such powers and jurisdiction as Her Majesty might, at any time before or after the passing of the said Order in Council have acquired in the territories on the West Coast of Africa near or adjacent to the Gold Coast Colony. These territories, known as the Protected Territories or British Protectorate, were eventually annexed to the Colony in 1901. The Charter of 1874 was superseded by Letters Patent dated the 23rd of January, 1883, and the 13th of January, 1886, respectively. By the latter instrument the Gold Coast Colony was separated from Lagos and formed into a distinct Colony comprising all places, settlements and territories belonging to Her Majesty on the Gold Coast in Western Africa between the fifth degree of west longitude and the second degree of east longitude.

By an Order in Council passed on the 26th of September, 1901, and called the Gold Coast Order in Council, 1901, the Protected Territories were annexed to His Majesty's dominions and declared to be part and parcel of His Majesty's Gold Coast Colony. The limits of these territories, especially in relation to the Colony, had been inconveniently vague, and the Order in Council recited that it was expedient that the boundaries of the Gold Coast Colony should be further defined, and that all such portions of the territories on the West Coast of Africa with the limits defined in the Order which had not already been included within His Majesty's dominions should be annexed to and should henceforth form part of the Gold Coast Colony. On the 22nd of October, 1906, a further Order in Council was passed called the Gold Coast Boundaries Order in Council whereby the limits of the Gold Coast Colony were closely defined. These are the present limits of the Colony.

Constitution.

The constitutional instrument providing for the Government of the Colony are the Letters Patent and Royal Instructions dated the 23rd of May, 1925, which creates the office of Governor and Commander-in-Chief and constitutes an Executive Council consisting of such persons as shall be directed by Instructions under the Royal Sign Manual and Signet, and a Legislative Council constituted in such manner and consisting of the Governor and such persons as are directed by the Order in Council of the 8th of April, 1925, and known as the Gold Coast Colony (Legislative Council) Order in Council, 1925. Royal Instructions were also passed on the 23rd May, 1925, directing that the Executive Council should consist of the Colonial Secretary, the Attorney-General, the Treasurer, the Director of Medical and Sanitary Services, and the Secretary of Native Affairs (these to be styled ex-officio Members) and such other persons as were at the date of the coming into operation of the aforesaid Letters Patent Members of the Council or as may be appointed under the Royal Sign Manual and Signet.
or as the Governor may appoint in pursuance of Instructions through a Secretary of State. The Legislative Council for the first time contains an elective element and consists of the Governor as President together with fifteen Official Members and fourteen Unofficial Members. The Official Members are the five senior Members of the Executive Council, the Comptroller of Customs, the Director of Public Works, the General Manager of the Railway, the Commissioners of the Eastern, Central and Western Provinces, as ex-officio Members, and such other officials not exceeding two at any one time as the Governor may appoint. The Unofficial Members are six Provincial Members, namely three for the Eastern Province, two for the Central Province, and one for the Western Province; three Municipal Members, namely; one each for the towns of Accra, Cape Coast and Sekondi respectively; one European Mercantile Member, one European Mining Member and three Europeans nominated by the Governor. The Provincial Members are Head Chiefs elected by the Provincial Councils of the said Provinces; the Municipal Members are elected by the electorate of the said towns; the Mercantile Member is elected by the Chambers of Commerce; and the Mining Member is elected by the Chamber of Mines.

**Municipal Government.**

The Town Councils Ordinance has been extended to the towns of Accra, Sekondi and Cape Coast. The town of Kumasi in Ashanti is under the control of a statutory corporation styled the Kumasi Public Health Board.

**Law and Justice.**

The Law of the Colony is the Common law, the doctrines of equity, and the statutes of genera, application in force in England, on the 24th July 1874, modified by a large number of Local Ordinances passed since that date. The Criminal Law was codified in 1892, and the civil and criminal procedure are regulated by the Supreme Court and Criminal Procedure Ordinances both originally passed in 1876.

Justice is administered by the Supreme Court, which is presided over by the Chief Justice and five Puisne Judges. Divisional Courts of the Supreme Court are held in different parts of the colony. There are also a large number of inferior Courts with limited criminal and civil jurisdiction, some of which are presided over by Police Magistrates and the remainder by Commissioners. The Supreme Court has an original civil and criminal jurisdiction, and also decides appeals from the inferior courts. The Chief Justice, and the Judges in their respective provinces have also powers of revision of the decisions of the Magistrates and Commissioners in criminal cases. Appeals from the Divisional Courts and from the Courts of the Provincial Commissioners in land cases lie to the recently established West African Court of Appeal.

Native customary law is administered in all the Courts, in so far as it is not incompatible with any ordinance, or rule, regulation, order, proclamation, or bye-law made under any ordinance for the time being in force in the Colony, and not repugnant to natural justice, equity and good conscience.

Native Tribunals, presided over by Paramount or Divisional Chiefs, are established throughout the Colony, with criminal and civil jurisdiction in cases where the parties are subject thereto. Such jurisdiction has been much increased by recent legislation, and certain judicial powers have also been conferred upon State Councils and Provincial Councils.

There is an appeal from the Tribunal of a Divisional Chief to that of a Paramount Chief, and from a Paramount Chief's Tribunal to the District Commissioner's Court; but, where a title to land is in dispute, the appeal lies from the Paramount Chief's Tribunal to the Provincial Commissioner's Court.

**Prisons.**

There are four convict and 24 local prisons.

The convict prisons are at Accra, Sekondi, Kumasi and Tamale.

The following industries are carried on successfully:—carpentry, cabinet-making, tailoring, mat and basket making, boot and shoe making, weaving, farming, string and rope making, brick-making.

The Mark System, whereby the remission of one quarter of a sentence can be earned by hard work and good conduct, is applied to all persons sentenced to two years or more.

A Boys' Industrial Home under the control of the Salvation Army has been established at Ada.

**Climate.**

The climate although hot and damp, is cooler than that of most tropical countries situated in similar latitudes. The most adverse feature relative to the residence of Europeans is the very high relative humidity which only falls below 80° in the dry districts of the north and east during the Harmattan. The average mean temperature is from 77°-81°, being greatest in the north and east and lowest in the forest area. Extremes of shade temperature have been 110° in Tamale and 49° at Kumasi.

The rainfall varies with the configuration of the country, being greatest in the south-western corner around Axim and least in the far north and coastal belt. There is the double wet season common to Tropical Africa corresponding to the double passage of the sun, the major rains in the south being in May and June and the lesser rains in September and October. In the Northern Territories intensity of the rains is reversed and in the extreme north the passages of the sun are so near to one another in date that there is only one wet season.

The most pronounced season is the Harmattan characterised by a dry north-east wind which blows from the Sahara carrying clouds of red dust during the period of cessation of the south-west monsoon. This occurs at the period when the sun is passing southwards to the spring solstice during January and February, and the feature is the terrific desiccation of the atmosphere. A drop of 63% of relative humidity has been experienced in 24 hours with a result that papers and books curl up and the skin appears parched and dry. The daily range of temperature is more than doubled and the period is very trying to Europeans. The maximum shade temperatures for 1930 were:—At Accra, 88-3° F.; Sekondi, 86-4° F.; Kumasi, 81-1° F.; and Tamale 93-8° F. The rainfall was 28-39, 42-66, 50-78 and 47-42 inches respectively.

**Mail and Steamship Services.**

The African Steamship Company and the British and African Steamship Navigation Company Limited are under contract with the Postmaster-General for conveyance of His Majesty's mails between Liverpool and the West and South-West coasts of Africa.

Regular sailings are maintained between Liverpool and West African ports for mails, passengers and cargo. There are also regular sailings from London.

A mail steamer of these Companies leaves Liverpool for Calabar and Port Harcourt alternately once a fortnight. The Port Harcourt Service calls at
Freetown, Takoradi, Accra, Lagos and Port Harcourt.

The Calabar Service calls at Madeira, Bathurst, Freetown, Monrovia, Takoradi, Accra, Lagos and Calabar; the usual length of voyage being thirteen days to Gold Coast ports.

Cargo steamers are despatched from Liverpool once every three weeks, calling at the principal Gold Coast ports. Length of voyage varies from 20 to 25 days.

Cargo steamers are despatched monthly, or as inducement offers, from New York, calling at the principal Gold Coast ports outwards and homewards. Length of voyage varies from 30 to 35 days.

Cargo steamers are despatched from Hamburg fortnightly, calling at Rotterdam, Antwerp and London for the principal Gold Coast ports. Length of voyage varies from 20 to 30 days.

Cargo steamers are despatched monthly, or as inducement offers, from Canada to West, South and East African ports, the usual itinerary being Montreal, Freetown, Cape Town, Port Elizabeth, East London, Durban, Lourenco Marques, Beira. This Service occasionally calls at Gold Coast ports homewards. The length of voyage between Montreal and Cape Town is about 25 days.

Elder Dempster & Company, Limited, act as managers for these two companies, and the Agents in the Gold Coast are the West African Lighterage and Transport Company, Limited.

Mail steamers of Chargeurs Reunis Line, sailing from Bordeaux, call at Accra and Takoradi, on the homeward voyage for passengers and cargo once a month. Cargo steamers call at regular intervals outwards and homewards. Local Agents:—F. and A. Swanzey, Lighterage Department, Branch of the United Africa Company, Limited.

Passenger and cargo steamers of Compagnie Francaise de Navigation a Vapeur (Cyp. Fabry), and Compagnie Marseillaise de Navigation a Vapeur (Cie Fraisinet), sailing from Marseilles call frequently outwards and homewards at Gold Coast ports. Local Agents:—F. and A. Swanzey, Lighterage Department, Branch of the United Africa Company, Limited.

Cargo steamers, with passenger accommodation, of the American West African Line are despatched twice monthly from New York and from the Gulf of Mexico, calling at the principal Gold Coast ports. These sailings are augmented during the Colony's cacao season to relieve congestion of cacao destined for America. The voyage from New York is now reduced to 28 days. Calls are also made at all ports to Loanda, including the Belgian Congo.

Cargo steamers of the United Africa Company, Limited, with limited accommodation for passengers, are despatched from Liverpool and the Continent. There are about two sailings per month, and steamers call outwards at all Gold Coast ports, and call homewards as inducement offers. Local Agents:—F. and A. Swanzey, Lighterage Department, Branch of the United Africa Company, Limited.

Cargo steamers of the Societe Navale de L'Ouest sail monthly from Hamburg, Antwerp, Havre and Bordeaux and call at the principal Gold Coast ports. They call homewards at continental ports as inducement offers. Local Agents:—Anglo-Guinea Produce Company, Limited, per F. and A. Swanzey, Lighterage Department, Branch of the United Africa Company, Limited.

Cargo steamers of the Navigazione Libera Triestina Line sailing from Venice, Trieste, Naples, Genoa, Marseilles and Barcelona call at the principal Gold Coast ports once every month. Local Agents:—Messrs. Anglo-Guinea Produce Company, Limited, per F. and A. Swanzey, Lighterage Department, Branch of the United Africa Company, Limited.

Mail and Passenger steamers of the German-African Lines (Woermann-Linie A.G., Deutsche Ost-Afrika Linie, Hamburg Amerika Linie (Afrika Dienst) and Hamburg Bremer (Afrika Linie) managed by the Woermann-Linie A.G. of Hamburg, sail from Hamburg to West African ports via Rotterdam, Boulogne s.M and Southampton at about monthly intervals, calling at Freetown, Monrovia, Takoradi, Accra, Lagos, Port Harcourt, Victoria, Tiko, Duala and Fernando Po.

Two to three Mail and Passenger Steamers to South and East Africa are despatched every month from Hamburg, running either via the Canary Islands and Capetown, or via the Mediterranean and Suez, but these steamers do not always call at Gold Coast ports.

Cargo steamers of the above Lines are despatched from Hamburg via Rotterdam, Antwerp and Havre about twice a month at regular intervals to African ports. Representative for the Gold Coast:—Woermann-Linie, Resident Agent, Accra.

The Holland West-Afrika Lijn N.V., Amsterdam, maintain mail, passenger and freight services from Hamburg, Amsterdam and Bordeaux to the West African ports by two sailings monthly.

The mail and passenger steamers are despatched monthly from Hamburg via Amsterdam, Bordeaux (through tickets from United Kingdom), reaching Takoradi in 13 days from Bordeaux. After Accra they proceed down the coast as far as Togo, Dahomey, Nigeria, Fernando Po and the Cameroons.

They call homewards at Accra and Takoradi and reach Europe via Freetown and Conakry within 14 days. All these steamers call at Le Havre homewards and passengers for the United Kingdom are transhipped to Southampton without additional charge.

Cargo steamers of this Line are despatched once every six weeks from Hamburg, Amsterdam and Bordeaux. Several of these boats have limited passenger accommodation. The length of voyage varies from 17 to 27 days.

Local Agents:—Holland West-Afrika Lijn N.V., P.O. Box 260, Accra.

Harbours.

The Gold Coast was for many years at a great disadvantage in that it possessed no deep-water harbour. Jetties protected by breakwaters were built at Sekondi and Accra, for the use of surf boats and lighters.

Sekondi has been replaced by a deep-water harbour a few miles to the westward at Takoradi which was opened to shipping in 1928. The Harbour is 220 acres in extent and provides moorings for six ocean-going ships whilst four can be berthed alongside the main wharf, which contains a large manganese-loading transporter.

Internal Communications.

Railway communication consists of a main line running from Sekondi to Kumasi thence to Accra, a distance of 361 miles, with branches, Takoradi Junction to Takoradi (7 miles), Inchaban Junction to Inchaban (4 miles), Tarkwa to Prestea (19 miles) and Huni Valley to Kade (99 miles). The Main Line and Branches are 3' 6" gauge. There is a branch line Accra to Weshington (Accra Water Works) 10 miles in length, which is 2' 6" gauge.

The railway gross earnings for the year 1931-32 were £761,396l., and the working expenditure, including provision for pensions, was £491,068l. The total number of miles open for traffic on the 31st March, 1932, was 500, and the capital cost £9,307,953l.

The mileage of motor roads maintained by the Public Works Department is 1,868 miles, as follows:—
The mileage of metalled and tarred roads now amounts to 434 miles. In addition to the 1,868 miles of motor roads which are under the control of the Public Works Department, there are some 3,900 miles of motorable roads which have been constructed and are maintained by the Chiefs. These roads are all motorable during the dry season and have opened up the country in all directions to motor traffic, and ferries have been installed and bridges built whenever necessary.

The Black Volta rises in the hills near Soukourabe, and the White Volta rises near Quahigouga, both in the French province of Haute Volta. These two rivers converge some 280 miles from the sea on the Ashanti-Northern Territories border and become the River Volta which flows into the sea at Ada. This river is navigable for light draught launches as far as Akuse, and, with the exception of the Krachi rapids, can be used for canoe traffic during certain seasons of the year as far as Yeji. The Ankobra River is navigable for many months of the year by surf-boats and light draught launches for a distance of 50 miles. The Tano, connected with Half Assini, by the main lagoon, and by a tramway, three miles in length, is navigable for light draught launches and canoes as far as Tanoso, a distance of about 60 miles.

Rapids at Sutri prevent this river being further utilised.

The ferry over the River Volta at Senkye is capable of taking the largest cars and lorries, and is now worked by an endless chain driven by a petrol motor placed on the ferry boat. A similar ferry is in operation over the same river at Yeji.

The Government maintains a Motor Transport Service, which operates in centres where vehicles provided by private enterprise are unobtainable or more costly than a Government-owned fleet. The headquarters is at Accra, with branches at Kumasi and Tamale. The department also handles Government cargo and officials' baggage and stores arriving by sea and arranges the coastwise shipping of Government personnel and stores between ports within the Colony.

In addition to their departmental duties, the officers of the Transport Department assist in carrying out the provisions of the Motor Traffic Ordinance by acting as Testing and Certifying Officers.

Medical Facilities.

Medical Officers are stationed at all the principal centres of the Colony, Ashanti and the Northern Territories. The majority of these officers travel in their districts and give treatment in village dispensaries.

There are 7 European Hospitals in the Gold Coast: 5 in the Colony, 1 in Ashanti, and 1 in the Northern Territories.

There are also 33 African Hospitals: 21 in the Colony, 5 in the Northern Territories, 5 in Ashanti and 2 in Togoland, under British Mandate.

There are in addition two Motor Travelling Dispensaries which do valuable work in the outlying districts.

The Gold Coast Hospital was opened at Accra in October, 1923, and does excellent and steady work and continues to grow in popularity with the native community. It contains over 200 beds and 18 cots, which are nearly always occupied.

In the year 1931-32 it dealt with over 13,000 out- and 3,800 in-patients, and 675 major operations were performed. At the African Hospital, Kumasi, nearly 18,000 out- and nearly 2,000 in-patients were treated during the same period.

An up-to-date Maternity Hospital in charge of a Woman Medical Officer, and now containing 29 beds and 19 cots was opened in 1928 at Korle Bu in the immediate vicinity of the Gold Coast Hospital and is highly appreciated. The training of Midwives is carried on here.

In addition to the above there is a Laboratory Services Branch consisting of a central Medical Research Institute situated at Accra, close to the Gold Coast Hospital. Valuable work in Research, Clinical pathology, etc., is carried on by this Branch.

Sanitation.

The Health Branch of the Medical Department is controlled by a Deputy Director of Health Service who is responsible to the Director of Medical and Sanitary Service. Medical Officers of Health are stationed in the most important towns in the Colony, Ashanti and the Northern Territories. All Medical Officers are charged with public health duties in their respective districts and in the more populous areas are assisted by European Superintending Sanitary Inspectors.

An increasingly important activity of the Health Branch is village sanitation, which in several areas, particularly in Ashanti, has gone ahead rapidly of recent years. The people are shown how to lay-out their villages on open lines and are instructed how to erect houses of a much improved type, and attention is paid to the improvement of village water supplies.

Birth and death registration is in force in 30 recognised registration areas, but is not generally applied. A birth-rate of 31·3 and a crude death-rate of 23·5 were returned for the year 1931. The infant mortality rate is somewhat high, the figure for Accra for the year 1931 being 114.

Ante-natal and Infant Welfare Centres in charge of Women Medical Officers have been established at Accra, Koforidua, Kumasi and in Sekondi and Cape Coast under the charge of Health Visitors.

Posts and Telegraphs.

The mails exchanged fortnightly between the Gold Coast and other British Colonies on the West Coast and the United Kingdom are carried by the steamers of the British and African Steam Navigation Company and of the African Steamship Company. Mails are exchanged over and with Togoland under French Mandate and with the French Ivory Coast; and direct mails from Hamburg are received fortnightly.

There are 73 Post Offices and 208 Postal Agencies, the distribution being effected principally by rail and motor. When this is impossible a runner service is employed. The rate for letters (1 oz.) within the Empire is 2½d., to the United States of America 3½d., elsewhere 3½d.

There are 4,713 miles of Telegraph Line Wire serving all the principal centres. The rate is 1½d. for 12 words, and 1½d. per word in excess of 12.
There are 7,911 miles of double wire line and underground cable circuits in use which link up 115 Exchanges and Call Offices throughout the country.

Any passenger or cargo boat entering Takoradi Harbour may be connected to the mainland telephone service and telegraph and phonogram system.

There are about 2,046 telephones, including those in Government Offices, in operation, and extensions to the system are in progress.

Parcel Post despatches are exchanged direct with the United Kingdom and with other British Colonies in West Africa, and the United States of America. Parcels for other countries are forwarded through the United Kingdom. The C.O.D. service from the United Kingdom is extensive.

British Imperial Postal Orders are issued and paid, and an inland and foreign Money Order system is in operation.

A coastal radio-telegraph station at Takoradi transmits radio-telegrams at 9d. per word.

The Eastern Telegraph Company transmits messages by cable to any part of the world from Accra.

Education.

Education in the Gold Coast has hitherto largely been, and is now to a still greater extent, aided and controlled by Government, and all schools are open to inspection by officers of the Education Department. All teachers are registered, and are paid according to an incrementally graded salary scale.

Apart from a large number of non-assisted primary schools, there are twenty-five Government schools and 332 Assisted schools in the Colony, Ashanti, and the Northern Territories. The latest figures show that these Government and Assisted Primary Schools have an enrolment of 42,473 pupils, of whom 10,092 are girls. The largest of the Missions working in these territories is the Presbyterian Church with 117 Assisted Schools followed next in order of size by the Ewe Presbyterian Church with 74 Assisted Schools.

In addition to the Government Primary Schools there are the Accra Government Technical School and four Junior Trade Schools in different parts of the country. They are all boarding schools established by Government for the purpose of giving instruction in the more common building and engineering trades with simple literary and technological training.

There are also training schools controlled by the departments concerned, e.g., Posts and Telegraphs, Agriculture and Forestry, and Surveys, where pupils are boarded and trained, being paid a salary while undergoing instruction.

Teachers intended for Government service and certain others receive free board and instruction in the Training Department of the Prince of Wales' College, Achimota.

Teachers are also trained at Wesley College, Kumasi, the Presbyterian Training College at Akropong, Akwapim, the Roman Catholic Training Colleges at Amisanu, near Elmina, and at Bla in Togoland under British Mandate.

The training of female teachers by Missions, under conditions of grant similar to those applying to male students at the Mission Colleges, has commenced.

There are two residential Secondary Schools at Cape Coast, both of which are Government aided, one being under the Wesleyan Mission and the other under the English Church Mission Local Authority.

The Roman Catholic, English Church, Wesleyan, and Presbyterian Missions each have residential Girls' Schools in which literary and domestic training is given.

The Prince of Wales' College, Achimota, near Accra, which was opened in January, 1927, is a boarding school open to pupils of all nationalities and religions. It is intended ultimately to provide a complete course of instruction for boys and girls from the Kindergarten stage up to the standard of the London Intermediate Examination. The College also trains teachers for Government and Assisted Schools.

The College is administered by a Council consisting partly of elected and partly of nominated members. It is subsidized by Government.

Currency and Banking.

Prior to 1912 and 1913 the currency consisted chiefly of British gold (comparatively rare), silver and copper. In 1912, subsidiary nickel-bronze coins (1½d., ¼d. and ½d. pieces) were introduced, and in 1913 a special silver currency common to all the British West African Colonies of the same weight and fineness as the corresponding British coins. The coins issued are 2½d., 1½d., 6½d. and 3½d. pieces. Owing to the great increase in the demand for currency and the difficulties in obtaining adequate supplies, it was found necessary in 1915 to make British Treasury Notes legal tender, and in 1916 special West African Currency Notes were introduced. 20s. and 10s. Notes are the only values now in circulation, 5l., 2s. and 1s. Notes having been withdrawn. In 1920, owing to the rapid disappearance of silver coins, an alloy coinage was introduced of the same denominations as the silver coins and silver has now practically been withdrawn from circulation. The special West Africa silver and alloy currency and the West African Currency Notes are under the management of the West African Currency Board and are secured by sterling securities held by the Board. Current British gold and silver coins, British 20s. and 10s. Treasury Notes, West Africa Currency silver and alloy coins, West African Currency Notes, and West Africa nickel-bronze coins are all legal tender.

The Bank of British West Africa, Limited, opened at Accra on the 1st January, 1897, and now has branches at all the principal business centres in the Colony.

The Colonial Bank (now Barclay's Bank (Dominion, Colonial and Overseas) Ltd.) began business at Accra in 1917, and branches have now been opened at other centres. Both Banks have a savings department. In 1888, a Government Savings Bank was established which is now under Post Office management. On 31st December, 1931, the amount to the credit of depositors was £4,183.

Accounts are kept in sterling.

Population.

The first attempt to take a census was made in 1891, which, however, covered the Colony only. Since then a census has been made at ten-year intervals, viz.:—1901, 1911, 1921 and 1931. Except in 1901, the whole of Ashanti and the Northern Territories have been included. In a country such as the Gold Coast, imperfect communications and lack of education make the holding of a complete census a matter of great difficulty and even now the figures cannot be considered absolutely accurate.

The approximate African population on Census day, 1931, was as follows:

| Region                  | Population |
|-------------------------|------------|
| The Colony              | 1,545,140  |
| Ashanti                 | 582,866    |
| Northern Territories    | 717,283    |
| Togoland (under British Mandate) | 275,925 |
| **Total**               | **3,121,214** |
The total number of Non-Africans was returned as 3,182 of whom 104 were "maritime", leaving 3,078 resident in the Colony and its Dependencies. Of these the majority were of British origin. The African Population of some of the chief towns was as follows:

- Accra: 59,895
- Kumasi: 36,200
- Cape Coast: 17,686
- Keta: 6,392
- Sekondi: 16,742
- Teshi: 5,715
- Winneba: 10,990
- Saltpond: 6,396
- Nsawam: 8,822
- Asamankeese: 5,900
- Koforidua: 19,634

**Industries, Trade and Customs.**

The chief products of the Colony are cacao, gold diamonds and manganese. Palm oil, palm kernels, lumber, kola and copra are also shipped.

The cultivation of cacao was started in Akwapim in 1879, and exports in 1891 realised £1. Coffee at that time fetched a fair price, and it was not until 1898, when the price for the latter article fell so low as to make its cultivation at any distance from the coast unremunerative, that attention was paid to cacao. Since that year the cacao industry has made rapid strides. In 1900 the value exported was £27,280; in 1918, £796,985; and in 1920, £10,056,288L In 1921, although the value fell considerably to £4,764,067L the quantity of cacao exported exceeded the 1920 export by 8,422 tons. In 1923, 225,007 tons, valued at £11,229,512L in 1929, 228,068 tons, valued at £9,704,493L in 1930, 190,680 tons, valued at £6,970,385L and in 1931, 244,097 tons, valued at £5,493,165L were exported respectively. There is a tax of ½d of a penny per lb. on cacao exported.

Gold has been exported from the Gold Coast more or less continuously since the discovery of the country by Europeans in the fifteenth century. Up to 1874, however, the industry was almost entirely in the hands of the natives. The first company for gold mining in West Africa was founded in 1874, but did little beyond exploration. A second company, formed in 1879, engaged in mining operations in the neighbourhood of Tarquah, and from that year the progress of mining enterprise is indicated by the rapid increase in the exports of gold bars, the result of European operations, as compared with those of gold dust, the produce of native mining. In 1899 there was a very remarkable development of the mining industry, which, though checked for a while by the disturbances in Ashanti, received a fresh impetus from the passing of the Concessions Ordinance in 1900, the progress of the railway, and general improvement in means of transport.

Gold is widely diffused throughout the Colony, Ashanti, and some parts of the Northern Territories, in quartz and alluvial deposits, while in Wassaw there is good conglomerate or banket formation which is now reported to extend to the Birrim District in the Eastern Province. The rivers are said to be rich in alluvial deposits. From the year 1903 (the first in which reliable statistics of production were kept) to 1921, the gold produced in the colony and Ashanti amounted to 5,062,267 fine ozs., valued at £21,504,750L. The highest annual production was in 1914, viz.:—410,600 fine ozs., valued at £1,744,498L. In 1928 the value of gold and gold dust exported was £84,816L; in 1929, £869,683L; in 1930, £1,065,634L; and in 1931, £1,069,681L. Extensive deposits of Bansuite exist, the most important being situated near Mpraeso in the Kwahu district where a large quantity of high grade ore has been located. In the Eastern Province near Kibi diamonds have been found, and the alluvial is being worked. The diamond exports in 1926 were 77,518 carats, valued at £98,760L; in 1928, 398,826 carats, valued at £84,279L. In 1929, 660,536 carats, valued at £84,613L; in 1930, 561,119 carats, valued at £68,994L; and in 1931, 880,479 carats, valued at £440,924L. Small diamonds have also been found in other localities.

Manganese Ore exists in large quantities close to the railway line about 35 miles from the port of Takoradi. Shipments of the Ore reached 338,667 tons in 1926, 419,224 tons valued at £748,288L in 1929, 417,490 tons, valued at £823,396L in 1930, and 247,191 tons, valued at £388,963L in 1931.

Modern facilities at the port of Takoradi for shipping large quantities of manganese ore were completed early in 1930.

The trade in products of the oil-palm has suffered severely in the last quarter of a century from the competition of cacao, and except in certain localities, notably the Volta River District, the farming of this kind of produce is neglected. Native manufactures are insignificant. Cloths are woven in many parts of the country, for the most part of English spun yarn, but in the northern districts occasionally of thread manufactured from the indigenous cotton plant. Narrow strips of four to six inches are woven on a rough hand loom, and stitched together to make clothes of various sizes. Gold and brass are worked by native smiths; canoes are made on the coast rivers; pottery for domestic purposes is made by hand, and wood-carving is done chiefly in Ashanti and Kwahu. Salt is roughly prepared from the lagoons between Accra and Keta and sent up country to the markets of the Northern Territories. Fishing is extensively carried on along the coast, and large quantities of sun-dried fish are sent to the villages and markets of the interior.

**Quantities and Values of the following Exports for 1931 were:**

| Quantity       | Value     |
|----------------|-----------|
| Cacao          | 244,097 Tons | £5,493,165 |
| Gold (raw)     | 273,514 Ozs. | £1,069,681 |
| Manganese Ore  | 247,191 Tons | £388,963   |
| Diamonds       | 880,479 Carats | £440,924 |
| Timber         | 636,127 Cubic feet | £62,479 |
| Kola Nuts      | *2,952,870 Lbs. | £38,380 |
| Palm Kernels   | 4,035 Tons   | £37,204 |

The first in value of the imports in 1931 was provisions—all kinds, followed by cotton piece goods, motor spirit, manufactured tobacco—cigarettes, silk goods (including artificial silk), bags and sacks, motor cars, machinery, iron and steel manufactures—other kinds, soap—other kinds, illuminating oil, apparel and malt liquors.

The following tables give particulars of the total values and the percentages of the (1) Import and (2) Export trade of the Gold Coast Colony according to countries for the year 1931:

* Exclusive of 852,145 lbs. of kola nuts, valued at £8,771L, exported from the Northern Territories (including the Northern sphere of Togoland under British Mandate) as from the 2nd November, 1931.
(1) Imports.

| Countries of Consignment | Value   | Percent of total |
|-------------------------|---------|------------------|
| **BRITISH EMPIRE**      |         |                  |
| United Kingdom          | £2,512,260 | 52·3             |
| Nigeria                 | £119,641  | 2·5              |
| Other British Possessions | £77,439  | 1·6              |
| **Total British Empire**| £2,709,240 | 56·4             |
| **FOREIGN COUNTRIES**   |         |                  |
| United States of America| £769,008  | 16·0             |
| Germany                 | £350,828  | 7·3              |
| Holland                 | £241,067  | 5·0              |
| French Togoland         | £254,505  | 5·3              |
| France                  | £154,746  | 3·2              |
| Other Foreign Countries  | £324,480  | 6·8              |
| **Total Foreign Countries** | £2,094,634 | 43·6            |
| **GRAND TOTAL**         | £4,803,874 | 100             |

(2) Exports.

| Countries of Destination | Value   | Percent of total |
|--------------------------|---------|------------------|
| **BRITISH EMPIRE**       |         |                  |
| United Kingdom           | £4,477,289 | 48·1             |
| Canada                   | £81,487  | .9               |
| Nigeria                  | £60,907  | .7               |
| Other British Possessions| £56,330  | .6               |
| **Total British Empire** | £4,676,013 | 50·3             |
| **FOREIGN COUNTRIES**    |         |                  |
| Germany                  | £1,184,476 | 12·7             |
| United States of America | £1,395,406 | 15·0             |
| Holland                  | £1,394,905 | 15·0             |
| French Togoland          | £185,953  | 2·0              |
| Norway                   | £109,800  | 1·2              |
| France                   | £130,583  | 1·4              |
| Other Foreign Countries   | £223,704  | 2·4              |
| **Total Foreign Countries** | £4,624,607 | 49·7            |
| **GRAND TOTAL**          | £9,300,620 | 100             |

The Customs Tariff is non-preferential. There is a 12½% ad valorem import duty on cotton manufactured goods, 20% ad valorem import duty on other textiles, hardware and various other classes of goods, and specific duties on alcoholic liquors, tobacco, timber and a number of other articles. There is also a surtax of 5% of the rates of duty on all articles except cotton manufactured goods and spirits.

ASHANTI.

Ashanti is inhabited by a large number of confederated tribes, the principal of which are the Bekwais, Adanasi, Kokofias, Nkwantas, Kumasis, Agunas, Mampons, Nautes, Kunawus, Bompasas, Juaibins and Ejisuas. Each tribe has its own Head Chief, but from time immemorial the King of Kumasi was recognised as the King paramount of the Confederation.

In 1873 the King of Ashanti invaded the British Protectorate with a large army, and reached Elmina, where he was entirely defeated by the British forces under Colonel (afterwards Sir) Francis Feeting. Later in the year Captain (afterwards Sir) John Glover was sent to the eastern districts of the Protectorate to organise the tribes in that quarter, for a flank movement against the Ashanti territory. At the same time Sir Garnet, (afterwards Viscount) Wolseley was despatched to the Gold Coast, with British and West Indian troops, native levies, and some seamen and marines, to operate against the Ashantis, starting from Cape Coast. On the 31st of January, 1874, he came into general engagement with the enemy at Amoafu, where he drove them from their position after desperate resistance. The next four days were employed continuously in fighting, until, on the evening of the 4th of February, the British force entered Kumasi. The King had fled to the bush. A few days later Sir John Glover also reached Kumasi. On the 13th, messengers sent by the King concluded a peace with Sir Garnet Wolseley at Fomana, which was afterwards signed with a pencil cross by King Kofi. By the Treaty of Fomana, the King of Ashanti renounced all claims on the Protectorate, promised to protect traders, to abandon human sacrifices, and to pay an indemnity of 50,000 ozs. of gold.

In 1894 Prempeh, who was then King of Kumasi, and had successfully fought against the Nkoranzaes, who had revolted against his rule, threatened to attack the Ateubusas. This attack was averted by the despatch of a force under Sir Francis Scott, and an ultimatum was then sent to Prempeh warning him not to enter British territory, and suggesting that he should acquiesce in the establishment of a Residency at Kumasi. No definite reply to this suggestion could be obtained, and a military expedition accordingly proceeded to Kumasi, to compel compliance with the demands of Her Majesty's Government. The expedition, under the command of Sir Francis Scott, entered Kumasi without resistance, January, 1896. Prempeh made submission, but, failing to comply with the terms dictated, was brought to the coast as a political prisoner and lodged in Elmina Castle, whence he was eventually deported to the Seychelles. A Resident was at the same time installed at Kumasi, and thus commenced an entirely new departure in the relations of the Gold Coast Colony with Ashanti.

In 1900 the Governor visited Kumasi, and was there besieged by the Ashantis, the town being closely invested. Provisions ran short, and a part of the garrison, with the Governor, cut their way out; the rest were relieved by Colonel (afterwards Sir J.) Willocks, commanding the Ashanti Field Force, on 15th July, after severe fighting. The Ashantis were subsequently thoroughly routed at Abosu.

An Order of the King in Council, dated September 26th, 1901, defined the boundaries of Ashanti, annexed it to His Majesty's Dominions, and provided for its administration under the Governor of the Gold Coast. By a subsequent Order in Council of the 22nd of October, 1906, the boundaries between the Colony and Ashanti, and between Ashanti and the Northern Territories, were re-adjusted and defined, with due regard to tribal lands and natural features.

Ashanti is administered by a Chief Commissioner with an Assistant Chief Commissioner as relieving Officer.

The dependency is divided into the following Districts, each under a District Commissioner with limited powers of jurisdiction—
Ashanti Akim District.
Kumasi District.
Mampong District.
Obusasi District.
Sunyani District.
Wenchi District.

In 1919 a Circuit Judge was appointed for Ashanti. This officer relieves the Chief Commissioner of practically all judicial work except civil cases and matters in which native customary law is applicable. A Police Magistrate exercises limited jurisdiction in the town of Kumasi.

The peaceful relations which, under the auspices of the Gold Coast Government, have existed for many years now between the Ashantis and the neighbouring tribes have been signified by not infrequent petitions emanating from the Gold Coast Colony as well as from Ashanti for the return from exile of Prempeh, the former Chief of Kumasi. The confidence felt by the Government of the Gold Coast in the loyalty of the Ashanti people led to the granting of this request in 1924, and to approval being given in 1926 of his election by his people as Omanhene or Head Chief of the Kumasi tribe.

Prempeh died on the 12th May, 1931 and was succeeded by his nephew Osei Agyiman Prempeh II as Omanhene of Kumasi on the 7th July, 1931.

THE NORTHERN TERRITORIES.

In 1897 the territories to the north of Ashanti were constituted a separate district with the title of "The Northern Territories," and placed in charge of a Commissioner, and a grant-in-aid of the expenditure in the Northern Territories was voted by Parliament.

Major H. P. Northcott was appointed Commissioner and Commandant of these territories, with the rank of Lieutenant-Colonel. The negotiations between the British and French Governments for the settlement of territorial questions in West Africa, which had been suspended in 1896, were resumed in October, 1897; and on 14th June, 1898, after a period of considerable tension in consequence of the proximity of the British and French forces in the disputed territories, a Convention was signed at Paris with a proviso that it should be ratified within six (subsequently extended to twelve) months. By this Convention the boundary between the Gold Coast and the French Colony of the Ivory Coast, which had only been settled in 1889, as far as the 9th parallel of north latitude, was continued northwards along the course of the Black Volta River to the 11th parallel, and it was then drawn along the 11th parallel with a deflection to the north in the neighbourhood of Mamprusi, until it met the Franco-German boundary of 1897.

The effect of the Anglo-French Convention of 14th June, 1898, was to leave Bona, Lobi, and Moshi to France, while Dagati, Wa, Mamprusi, and the southern portion of Grunshi were included in the British sphere.

On 14th November, 1899, an agreement was concluded with Germany for the partition of the "neutral zone." This partition assigned Salaga to Great Britain, and Yendi to Germany, and to the north of the zone gave Mamprusi to the former and Chakosi to the latter.

Survey operations were undertaken by Anglo-French and Anglo-German Commissions during 1901-2, for the delimitation of those portions of the boundaries which had not yet been settled.

By the demarcation on the ground of the Anglo-German boundary between the Trans-Volta District and the adjoining Colony of Togo; of the Anglo-German boundary north of the 9th parallel of north latitude; and of the Anglo-French boundary along the 11th parallel of north latitude, all the frontiers of the Colony, Ashanti and the Northern Territories have now been exactly defined.

Provision was made for the administration of the Northern Territories under the Gold Coast Government by an Order of the King in Council of 26th September, 1901, and by an Administrative Ordinance of January 1st, 1902, the Northern Territories were placed under a Chief Commissioner, and divided into the White Volta, Black Volta, Kintampo and Gonja Districts with headquarters at Gambaga, Wa, Kintampo and Salaga.

The Northern Territories are administered by a Chief Commissioner with an Assistant Chief Commissioner as Relieving Officer.

The dependency is divided into the following districts, each under a District Commissioner with limited powers of jurisdiction:

- Mamprusi District.
- Wa District.
- Lawra-Tumu District.
- Dagomba District.
- Gonja District.

By Order in Council, of the 22nd of October, 1906, the boundaries between the Northern Territories and Ashanti were re-adjusted and defined.

An important step was taken with regard to the Government of this Protectorate by replacing, with effect from the 1st of January, 1907, the former semi-military administration by a staff of Civil District and Assistant District Commissioners, and by establishing new stations. Simultaneously, the 2nd Battalion of the Gold Coast Regiment was disbanded and a force of armed constabulary substituted therefor. In 1929, the Northern Territories Constabulary was disbanded and their duties taken over by the Gold Coast Police.

In 1920 the Circuit Judge, Ashanti, was appointed to exercise in the Northern Territories powers similar to those which he exercises in Ashanti.

TOGOLAND UNDER BRITISH MANDATE.

The former German protectorate of Togoland is situated on the Gulf of Guinea, bounded on the east by Dahomey and on the west by the Gold Coast and its Protectorates. The actual coast-line lies between 1° 45' and 1° 14' W. longitude, the frontiers, however, especially on the west, opening out considerably. The total area is about 36,500 square miles.

Until 1884-85 the majority of the tribes along the littoral and its immediate hinterland, also those adjoining the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast regarded themselves as being under the suzerainty of Great Britain, but by agreements made with the French on the 24th December, 1885, and with the British on the 14th and 28th July, 1886, when provisional frontiers were fixed, German influence was formally recognized by those Powers. Subsequent agreements dated the 23rd July, 1897, and the 14th November, 1899, between Germany and the Governments of France and Great Britain respectively defined the northern frontiers of Togoland.
Immediately upon the outbreak of war between Great Britain and Germany Togoland was invaded by the Gold Coast forces. On the 6th August, 1914, Captain E. B. Barker entered the capital, Lome, under a flag of truce and on the following day that town and the hinterland for a distance of 120 kilometers from the sea were surrendered. On the 8th August Anecho (Petit Popo) was occupied by the French. Operations on a larger scale commenced on the 11th August when Temporary Lieutenant-Colonel F. C. Bryant landed at Lome. After engagements at Agbelufoe and Chra River on the 16th and 24th August respectively the enemy retired on the great wireless station at Kamina, which they destroyed. On the 26th August the Acting-Governor surrendered the Colony unconditionally.

Peace parleys then took place between Sir Hugh Clifford, governor of the Gold Coast, and M. Noufflard, governor of Dahomey, as the result of which an agreement, subsequently ratified by the governments concerned was drawn up. Under this agreement Togoland was provisionally divided into British and French spheres. To the British were allotted the western administrative areas of Lome and Lomeland, Misahoe, Kete-Krachi and Yendi, and to the French Anecho, Atakpame, Sokode and Sansanne Mangu.

By proclamation dated the 30th September, 1914, civil courts were established under the presidency of political officers seconded from the Gold Coast, appeal lying from the district courts to that of a senior political officer. In the absence of a local criminal code, that of the Gold Coast was introduced as a basis of procedure.

In June, 1915, the office of senior political officer was merged in that of the senior military commander, without prejudice, however, to the civil nature of the court concerned.

Boundary adjustments with the French took place in 1920 in accordance with an agreement signed by Lord Milner and M. Simon on 10th July, 1919. Lome and the whole of the coast were given over to the French, and the British received additional territory in the interior. The area of the British sphere is 13,041 square miles.

In October, 1921, the Council of the League of Nations approved in principle the arrangements made between the British and French Governments for the division of Togoland in accordance with the agreement of 10th July, 1919, and the application to the territories of the Mandate system; and on 20th July, 1922, after a delay due to negotiations between the United States Government and the Mandatory Powers, the Council confirmed the mandates and defined their terms.*

Togoland under British Mandate is now administered under the provisions of the British Sphere of Togoland Order in Council, 1923, which was issued on the 11th of October, 1923.

Under this instrument, the British Sphere is divided into the Northern Section and the Southern Section. The Northern Section is administered as if it formed part of the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast, and the Southern Section is administered as if it formed part of the Eastern Province of the Gold Coast Colony. The Chief Commissioner's Court of the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast exercises jurisdiction in the Northern Section; and the Supreme Court of the Gold Coast Colony exercises the jurisdiction in the Southern Section.

Subject to the terms of the Mandate, the law for the time being in force in the Northern Territories of the Gold Coast is the law in force in the Northern Section, and the law for the time being in force in the Gold Coast Colony is the law in force in the Southern Section. The Governor of the Gold Coast Colony is empowered to enact Ordinances with respect to the British Sphere as a whole, or with respect to either Section thereof separately. Togoland under British Mandate is not distinguished from the Gold Coast in the statistical returns, but it is beyond question that the revenue which it brings to the Gold Coast is inconsiderable compared with the money expended upon it. It contains no part of the old German railway system, which retains most of the export and import trade of the Southern and richest Section. The towns of Ho and Kpandu are joined to the Gold Coast road system by a road which meets the Volta River at Senchi where there is a power ferry. There is also a direct road from Yendi to Tamale, but the Gold Coast cannot offer prices sufficiently attractive to induce the people to abandon their accustomed market centres on the Lome Railway.

**Gold Coast Statistics.**

| Year | Revenue | Expenditure | British Total | Tonnage |
|------|---------|-------------|---------------|---------|
|      | £       | £           | £             | Tonnage |
| 1922-23 | 3,367,196 | 2,934,994 | 1,797,877 | 2,775,638 |
| 1923-24 | 3,742,834 | 3,158,124 | 1,977,364 | 2,397,869 |
| 1924-25 | 3,971,187 | 3,828,333 | 2,189,097 | 3,671,964 |
| 1925-26 | 4,116,442 | 4,255,126 | 2,490,651 | 4,181,150 |
| 1926-27 | 4,365,321 | 4,328,159 | 2,698,872 | 4,812,222 |
| 1927-28 | 5,217,638 | 4,714,947 | 2,835,491 | 4,896,400 |
| 1928-29 | 4,703,967 | 5,419,732 | 2,891,152 | 5,462,930 |
| 1929-30 | 3,397,324 | 3,932,022 | 2,977,635 | 5,540,387 |
| 1930-31 | 3,499,418 | 3,744,010 | 2,872,358 | 5,267,048 |
| 1931-32 | 2,284,299 | 2,823,752 | 2,163,450 | 4,475,430 |

*Imports.*

| Year | From U.K. | Colonies | Elsewhere | Total |
|------|-----------|----------|-----------|-------|
|      | £         | £        | £         | £     |
| 1922 | 5,986,325 | 417,790 | 1,516,224 | 7,919,339 |
| 1923 | 5,847,795 | 251,722 | 2,349,345 | 8,448,862 |
| 1924 | 5,406,983 | 283,691 | 2,624,560 | 8,315,234 |
| 1925 | 6,363,566 | 240,856 | 3,173,197 | 9,782,619 |
| 1926 | 5,717,461 | 1,141,922 | 3,426,493 | 10,285,876 |
| 1927 | 7,940,917 | 775,879 | 5,653,753 | 13,770,542 |
| 1928 | 6,513,246 | 506,995 | 5,179,804 | 12,200,045 |
| 1929 | 4,757,712 | 398,770 | 4,929,899 | 10,682,381 |
| 1930 | 4,395,108 | 296,834 | 4,261,828 | 8,953,770 |
| 1931 | 2,512,260 | 196,980 | 2,094,634 | 4,803,874 |

*Exports.*

| Year | To U.K. | Colonies | Elsewhere | Total |
|------|---------|----------|-----------|-------|
|      | £       | £        | £         | £     |
| 1922 | 3,522,555 | 343,993 | 4,477,087 | 8,343,635 |
| 1923 | 3,068,616 | 347,899 | 5,552,898 | 8,959,313 |
| 1924 | 2,884,926 | 429,509 | 6,600,502 | 9,914,937 |
| 1925 | 3,372,680 | 426,161 | 7,091,442 | 10,890,223 |
| 1926 | 3,570,865 | 437,809 | 8,096,126 | 12,104,800 |
| 1927 | 4,334,135 | 420,890 | 9,595,630 | 14,350,355 |
| 1928 | 4,104,309 | 399,734 | 9,320,832 | 13,824,875 |
| 1929 | 3,615,836 | 416,506 | 8,645,375 | 12,677,716 |
| 1930 | 4,386,843 | 428,324 | 6,472,221 | 11,287,388 |
| 1931 | 4,477,289 | 198,724 | 4,624,607 | 9,300,620 |

Customs receipts, 1928—3,010,749l.
" " 1929—2,389,209l.
" " 1930—2,140,677l.
" " 1931—1,316,268l.

*These figures refer to calendar years.*
Governors of the Gold Coast (since 1900).

1900. Sir Matthew Nathan, K.C.M.G.
1904. Sir John P. Rodger, K.C.M.G.
1910. J. J. Thorburn, Esq., C.M.G.
1912. Sir Hugh C. Clifford, K.C.M.G.
1919. Brigadier-General Sir F. Gordon Guggisberg, K.C.M.G., D.S.O., R.E.
1927. Sir Alexander Ransford Slater, K.C.M.G., C.B.E.
1932. Sir Thomas Shenton W. Thomas, K.C.M.G., O.B.E.

Executive Council.

The Governor, President.
The Colonial Secretary.
The Attorney-General.
The Treasurer.
The Director of Medical and Sanitary Services.
The Secretary for Native Affairs.

The Legislative Council is composed of the same members as the Executive Council, with the addition of the following Members:

Ex-Officio Members. The Comptroller of Customs, The Director of Public Works, The General Manager of the Railway, The Commissioner of the Western Province, The Commissioner of the Central Province, The Commissioner of the Eastern Province, The Surveyor-General, The Director of Education.

Nominated Official Members, The Commissioner of Lands, The Director of Agriculture.

Unofficial Members. 6 Provincial Members (elected), Nana Ayirebi Acquah III (Omanhene of Winneba); Togbi Sri II (Awame Fia of Awuona); Nana Sir Ofori Atta, K.B.E. (Omanhene of Akim Abukwa); None M. A. Awah II (Manche of Shai); Nana Tsibu Darku IX (Omanhene of Asin Atandasu); Nana Hima Dekyi XII (Omanhene of Upper Dixcove).

Elected Mercantile Member, R. Harris.

Nominated Mining Member, J. D. McKay, O.B.E.

Nominated Unofficial Members, F. E. Talland, O.B.E., T. Whitfield, O.B.E., F. V. Booth.

Elected Municipal Members, K. A. Koroma, G. J. Christian, F. V. Nanka Bruce.

Clerk of Councils, B. P. E. Bulstrode (acting).

† Civil Establishment.

Governor's Office.

Governor, Sir Thomas Shenton W. Thomas, K.C.M.G., O.B.E., 4,600l., plus 1,600l. duty allowance.

Private Secretary.
Aide-de-Camp.
Chief Clerk, H. E. Richter, 300l. by 12l. to 396l.

† In the following particulars of the Civil Establishment:

Scale A is as follows.—For those appointed before 1st October, 1923; 450l. for three years, then 610l. by 30l. to 720l., by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

For those appointed on or after 1st October, 1923; 400l., 510l., 650l., 800l. by 30l. to 720l., by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

Scale B is as follows.—For those appointed before 1st October, 1923; 500l. for three years, then 700l. by 30l. to 720l., by 40l. to 960l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

For those appointed on or after 1st October, 1923; 450l. for three years, then 610l. by 30l. to 720l., by 40l. to 960l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

Scale C is as follows.—For those appointed before 1st October, 1923; 480l. by 30l. to 700l., by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

For those appointed on or after 1st October, 1923; 500l. for three years, then 610l. by 30l. to 720l., by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

Colonial Secretary's Office.

Colonial Secretary, G. A. S. Northcote, C.M.G., 1,800l. and duty allowance, 360l.

Deputy Colonial Secretary, G. C. du Boulay, C.B.E., 1,350l. and duty allowance, 270l.

Senior Assistant Colonial Secretaries, L. W. Wood and R. B. Crabb, 1,050l. and duty allowance, 210l.

Assistant Colonial Secretaries, Major C. O. Butler, Capt. J. V. W. Shaw, Capt. G. M. Puakridge, Scale B, and Secretariat allowance, 120l.; A. D. W. Skinner, B. P. E. Bulstrode, scale B; J. Welsing and H. H. Malm, 335l. by 15l. to 350l. by 25l. to 600l. by 36l. to 780l.

Secretarial Assistant, A. W. Clark, 335l. by 15l. to 350l. by 25l. to 600l.

Superintendents of Branches, E. W. Adjaye and S. A. Laryea, 300l. by 12l. to 396l.

Secretary for Native Affairs Office.

Secretary for Native Affairs, W. J. A. Jones, 1,350l. and 270l. duty allowance.

Assistant Secretary for Native Affairs, J. C. de Graaff Johnson, 335l. by 15l. to 350l. by 25l. to 600l. by 36l. to 780l.

Administrative and Political Service.

Chief Commissioner, Ashanti, 1,800l. and duty allowance, 320l.

Chief Commissioner, Northern Territories, F. W. F. Jackson, C.M.G., D.S.O., 1,600l. and duty allowance, 320l.

Provincial Commissioners, H. W. Thomas, A. C. D. Johnstone, C. E. Skene, E. O. Rake, F. W. Applegate, 1,200l. plus 240l. duty allowance.

Deputy Provincial Commissioners, A. F. E. Fieldgate, Paymaster-Cmdr. S. W. Saxton, R.N. (retired), 1,050l. plus 210l. duty allowance.

District Commissioners and Assistant District Commissioners, C. E. E. Cockey, A. F. L. Wilkinson, L. W. Judd, T. R. O. Mangin, Capt. J. C. Warrington, Capt. V. J. Lynch, M.C., Capt. R. C. Sumner, Capt. C. C. Lilley, O.B.E., Lt.-Col. G. H. Gibbs, M.C., Major W. R. Gosling, O.B.E., Paymaster-Lieut. G. P. H. Bewes, E. A. Burner, Capt. J. R. Dickinson, M.C., C. S. Masser, Major J. S. R. Robertson, Capt. St. J. R. Eyre Smith, M.C., G. Hall, B. D. A. Cathie, H. P. Dixon, Capt. P. W. Rutherford, M.C., R. W. Sanderson, J. E. Miller, R. E. Page, F. P. Holtzbaum, Capt. E. F. Burn, O.B.E., Capt. O. F. Ross, G. D. Chamberlain, G. E. C. Wisdom, D. R. Caruth, E. N. Jones, O. J. Collison, M.C., Capt. J. A. Armstrong, H. G. Adiron, J. P. W. Everhard, Capt. V. W. Bratton, W. H. Beeton, H. C. Ellershaw, G. F. Mackay, P. C. B. Shirreffs, H. V. Wimshurst, D. A. Sutherland, R. W. Woolley, J. A. Prendergast, H. A. Blair, J. K. G. Syme, M. I. H. Mackenzie-Inglis, W. B. Smith, J. Gutch, C. B. A. Darling, Capt. L. I. Mothermill, M. M. Miln, D. N. Walker, R. G. Cooper, Hon. H. W. Amherst, H. S. Stovold, S. J. Olivier, G. E. Barnard, H. E. Devaux, R. G. Syme, W. A. S. Cole, A. C. Spooner, A. C. Russell, R. E. Walker, G. N. N. Nunn, W. V. Fuller, H. A. Bonavia, A. J. Lovedge, R. W. Ellison, W. A. R. Walker, A. McAuley, A. D. Dawson, J. C. Guinness, K. C. Tours, Scale B.

Cadets, G. Hadow, C. J. Fletcher.

Judicial Department.

Chief Justice, Sir G. C. Deane, Kt., 2,000l. and 400l. duty allowance.

Puisne Judge, W. P. Michelin, A. B. Howes, S. S. Sawrey-Cookson, J. M. St. J. Yates, 1,400l. and 280l. duty allowance each.
Chief Registrar and Sheriff, J. F. St. A. Fawcett, 960l., plus 92l. duty allowance, 140l. personal allowance.

Police Magistrates, C. E. W. Bannerman, A. P. Taylor, M.C., Capt. W. Price-Jones, M.C., R. T. Egg, A. Hutton-Mills. (Four at 720l. by 40l. to 960l., two at 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 840l., plus 72l. seniority allowance from 720l.)

Judiciary Ashanti and Northern Territories.

Circuit Judge, C. M. Barton, 1,200l. and 240l. duty allowance.

Law Officers' Department.

Attorney-General (vacant), 1,500l. and 300l. duty allowance.

Solicitor-General, J. de Hart, 1,100l. and 220l. duty allowance.

Crown Counsel, L. E. V. McCarthy, C. Furness Smith, H. Glyn Morgan, 720l. to 960l., and 72l. seniority allowance.

Printing Office.

Government Printer, C. H. Townley, 360l. by 30l. to 800l., and 72l. seniority allowance.

Superintendent Government Press, W. H. Crocker, 540l. by 15l. to 600l.

Assistant Government Printers, C. E. Heath, Capt. A. Johnson, 450l. by 15l. to 600l.

Printers' Engineer, G. L. Hutton, 420l. by 15l. to 600l.

European Proof Reader, E. Stoddard, 420l. by 15l. to 600l.

Treasury Department.

Treasurer, R. A. Kelly, 1,350l., and 270l. duty allowance.

Deputy Treasurer, H. Vane Percy, 1,050l. and 210l. duty allowance.

Assistant Treasurers, G. A. D. Davies, Capt. J. H. Stephens, M.C., F. A. C. Jones, J. H. Anderson, A. R. W. Robertson, F. D. MacPhail, Scale A.

Office Superintendent, A. I. Anteson, 300l. by 12l. to 384l., 400l. by 20l. to 500l.

Assistant Accountant, W. F. Hutchison, 300l. by 12l. to 384l., 400l. by 20l. to 500l.

Audit Department.

Auditor, A. S. Cremer, 1,100l., duty allowance, 220l.

Deputy Auditor, C. E. de B. Biden, 960l. and duty allowance, 96l.

7 Assistant Auditors, R. S. Foster, Capt. W. H. Lempiere, L. R. Barton, R. E. Irwin, G. E. L. Lord, R. Fisher, (1 vacancy), Scale A.

Chief Audit Clerk, G. Marmon, 335l. by 15l. to 360l., by 25l. to 600l. by 36l. to 780l.

Customs Department.

Comptroller, J. I. Lauder, 1,200l., and 240l. duty allowance.

Deputy Comptroller, Capt. A. D. MacKenzie, 1,050l., and 210l. duty allowance.

Assistant Comptroller, Capt. G. Paterson, M.M., 960l. and 96l. duty allowance.

Inspector of Customs, A. J. Beckley, O.B.E., 960l. and 96l. duty allowance.

Senior Collectors and Collectors, Capt. H. W. R. Chandler, M.C., W. E. Conway, G. J. Freeman, J. McLagan, J. Milne, Capt. C. L. d'Albani, G. H. Barracough, A. G. Simon, C. G. Packwood, Major C. W. Dann, M.C., H. G. Gowen, A. G. Davidson, F. C. Lander, A. G. Johnson, R. P. M. T. Barrett, M. S. Murphy, A. D. W. Allen, Capt. H. J. Le Mare, Scale A; A. S. Dadzie, and William Quansah, 335l. by 15l. to 360l. by 25l. to 600l. by 36l. to 780l.

Railway and Harbour Department.

General Manager and Harbour Authority, R. H. Dawson, C.B.E., M.Inst.T., 1,700l. and 340l. duty allowance.

Assistant to General Manager, F. J. Bush, 720l. by 40l. to 920l. and 72l. seniority allowance.

Office Assistant, A. F. Kirby, A.M.Inst.T., Scale A, with maximum of 720l.

Chief Engineer, J. H. Dodd, A.M.I.C.E., 1,180l. and 236l. duty allowance.

District Engineers, F. V. Macdonald, A.M.I.C.E., J. R. S. Sutherland, A.M.E.I. (Canada), M.S.E., W. J. O. Reeves, Scale C.

Assistant Engineers, W. R. Clark, A.M.I.C.E., J. W. Moran, O.B.E., A.M.I.C.E., A. C. E. Anthony, A.M.I.C.E., L. G. Lloyd, A.M.I.S.W.E., P. A. Oppenheim, A.M.I.C.E., G. D. Rae, H. W. G. Drummond, Scale C.

Draughtsman, W. H. Norris, Scale A with maximum of 720l.

Chief Mechanical Engineer, R. T. Kerr, A.M.I.Mech.E., M.I.Loco.E., 1,180l. and 236l. duty allowance.

Assistant Chief Mechanical Engineer, G. S. Simmons, M.I.Mech.E., 960l. and 96l. duty allowance.

Works Manager, J. H. Burt, 720l. to 920l. and 72l. seniority allowance.

Running Superintendent, Major C. R. Turner, Scale C.

District Locomotive Superintendents, J. E. Cutforth, W. Venner, Scale C.

Assistant Locomotive Superintendents, A. T. G. Power, W. C. Clark, Scale C.

Chief Draughtsman and Technical Instructor, R. G. Wickham, Scale C.

Locomotive Office Superintendent, (vacant), Scale A, with maximum of 720l.

Senior Locomotive Foreman, (vacant), 800l.

Boiler Inspector, G. A. Nork, 800l.

Mechanical Foreman of Wharfs, W. K. Fairclough, 800l.

Electrical Engineer, M. H. Rooney, 720l. by 40l. to 920l., and 72l. seniority allowance.

Assistant Electrical Engineers, A. R. Townsend, D. H. Skinner, E. T. H. Wilkinson, Scale C, with maximum of 720l.

African Assistant Electrical Engineer, E. A. Sackey, 400l. by 25l. to 600l.

Traffic Manager, W. E. Lewis, 1,180l. and 236l. duty allowance.

District Traffic Superintendents, W. L. Williams, R. Creighton, W. Dickinson, Scale A.

Assistant Traffic Superintendents, W. Hill, A. C. Sykes, N. Blackall, R. J. M. Field, Scale A.

District Station Masters, R. J. Hudman, J. A. Smith, S. A. Aston, T. S. Breckon, E. Roberts, R. S. Cunningham, A. Bradshaw, Scale F.

Chief Accountant, H. Mason, A.M.Inst.T., 1,180l. and 236l. duty allowance.

Senior Accountant, C. B. Hughes, 720l. by 40l. to 920l., and 72l. seniority allowance.

Accountants, G. Henderson, C. O. Parker, S. W. Arrowsmith, 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 800l., 72l. seniority allowance from 720l.

Assistant Accountants, W. A. Hutchinson, J. S. Birt, D. V. Summers, H. G. McElroy, R. A. Braysher, J. O. Frappell, Scale A, with maximum of 720l., W. Mensah, J. D. Haizel, 335l. to 780l.

Stock Verifier, S. F. Harmer-Elliott, Scale A, with maximum of 720l.

Printing Superintendent, T. Turner, 420l. by 15l. to 600l.

Chief Storekeeper, J. H. Pryer, 800l. to 1,020l. and 100l. duty allowance.

For Scales A to C, see footnote on page 304.
Assistant Chief Storekeeper, T. H. Taylor, 720l. to 800l., and 72l. seniority allowance.

Assistant Storekeepers, D. C. Bailey, W. Galloway, Scale A, with maximum of 720l. (1 vacancy).

Store Accountant, W. Ritchie, Scale A, with maximum of 720l.

Takoradi Harbour.

General Manager and Harbour Authority, R. H. Dawson, C.B.E., M.Inst.T.

Office Assistant, E. M. Berkley-Barton, Scale A.

Chief Accountant, H. Mason, A.M.Inst.T.

Assistant Accountant, E. Oldham, Scale A, with maximum of 720l.

Chief Storekeeper, J. H. Pryer.

Chief Engineer, J. H. Dodd.

Harbour Engineer, W. Hewitt, 1,000l., duty allowance 200l.

Foremen of Works, A. J. Davis, E. Thompson, 500l. by 12l. to 580l.

Chief Mechanical Engineer, R. T. Kerr, A.M.I.Mech.E., M.I.Loco.E.

Tug Engineers, W. E. G. Wallace, W. Gordon, (one vacancy), 480l. by 20l. to 560l., charge allowance 48l.

Harbour Master, Capt. C. R. Hemans, R.N. (retired), 1,000l., 200l. duty allowance.

Assistant Harbour Master, J. A. Davis, 750l., 72l. seniority allowance.

Senior Pilot, A. E. Adams, 650l.

Pilots, H. G. Veale, G. E. Cartmer, 600l.

Posts and Telegraphs Department.

Postmaster-General, E. C. Crewe, 1,200l. and 240l. duty allowance.

Chief Accountant, E. A. Martin, 720l. to 920l., duty allowance 80l.

Assistant Accountants, W. Emmett, and L. C. Saville, Scale A, with maximum of 720l.

Divisional Surveyors, H. Brooks, J. Youll and A. E. Stride; and District Surveyors, J. Rothwell, R. H. Hume, L. P. Wallis and E. A. Poocock, Scale A.

Chief Storekeeper, Capt. R. A. M. Hastings, M.C., Scale A, with maximum of 720l.

Assistant Storekeepers, A. B. Cawthra and H. D. Coe, Scale A, with maximum of 720l.

Telegraph Instructor, J. S. Page, Scale C.

African Assistant Accountant, E. M. Lamptey, 335l. by 15l. to 350l. by 25l. to 600l.

African Assistant District Surveyors, J. E. Holdbrook and A. Mends, 335l. by 15l. to 350l. by 25l. to 600l. by 30l. to 780l.

Telephone Exchange Superintendents, M. T. Wood, W. Murchison, N. P. H. James, and H. Ross, 400l. by 15l. to 430l. by 30l. to 600l.

Engineering Branch.

Superintending Telegraph Engineer, J. L. Shearer, 960l. and 96l. duty allowance.

Assistant Superintending Telegraph Engineer, Capt. W. B. South, 920l. and 92l. duty allowance.

Telegraph Engineers, L. G. M. Keevil, S. S. Kellaway, J. Macklin, D. H. Mackay, F. J. Greer, E. T. K. Cann, F. Paltridge and J. R. F. Robertson, Scale C.

Workshop Superintendent and Technical Instructor, W. Samples, Scale C.

Assistant Technical Instructors, A. J. Paul and G. B. Jones, Scale C.

Assistant Workshop Superintendent, L. C. Ramsey, Scale C.

Medical Department.

Director of Medical and Sanitary Services, D. Duff, M.B., B.Ch., D.P.H., 1,600l., and 320l. duty allowance.

Deputy Director of Medical Service, P. D. Oakley, 1,400l. and 280l. duty allowance.

Assistant Directors of Medical Services, P. S. Selwyn-Clarke, (one vacancy), 1,300l., and 260l. duty allowance.

Specialists, E. M. Franklin, A. M. MacRea, 1,300l., and 260l. duty allowance.

Senior Medical Officers, R. Mugliston, S. L. Brohier, W. I. Martyn-Clark, A. C. Paterson, W. J. McClintock, N. A. D. Sharp, 1,000l. to 1,150l., with seniority allowance of 100l.

Medical Officers, J. Byrne, J. R. Forde, E. S. E. Mack, V. E. Critien, G. F. T. Saunders, F. McKernan, E. M. Fraser, O. G. Wilde, J. Hamilton, F. M. Purcell, G. W. Vaughan, W. N. Greer, O.B.E., M. T. Cassidy, T. V. Fitzpatrick, P. L. Gray, R. D. Reid, M. MacSweeney, A. J. Hawe, F. S. Paterson, L. D. Quigley, H. S. Townsend, S. G. Harrison, G. M. Minifie, A. M. Gillespie, G. L. Alexander, A. MacPherson, A. Walker, S. Batchelor, M.C., W. S. Thomas, G. C. Edwards, S. A. Maclean, P. B. Wilkinson, R. Ramsay, J. A. K. Fitzgerald, E. R. Gauld, 660l. to 960l., 1,000l. by 50l. to 1,160l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

Alienist Officer, F. McLagan, 800l. by 40l. to 960l., 1,000l. by 50l. to 1,150l., with seniority allowance of 72l., and staff pay of 150l.

Woman Medical Officer, J. G. E. F. Cummins, 680l. to 960l., 1,000l. by 50l. to 1,150l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

Dental Surgeon, W. H. Donald, 660l. to 720l. to 960l., with seniority allowance of 72l.

African Medical Officers, E. Tagoe, F. Ribeiro, H. Mercer-Ricketts, C. J. S. O. Taylor, 600l. to 720l.

Radiographer, G. MacLardie, 600l. by 30l. to 720l.

Assistant Radiographer, A. Buckner, 400l. to 600l.

Analytical Chemists, R. Simmons and R. W. Clarke, 720l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l.

Medical Storekeeper, W. J. Phillips, 460l. to 720l.

Secretary, Gold Coast Hospital, L. C. Whitecombe, Scale A, with maximum of 720l.

Dispensing Instructor, W. Dunlin, 500l. by 12l. to 580l.

Matron European Nursing Staff, M. G. Le Bas, 600l., and 120l. duty allowance.

Senior Nursing Sisters, G. M. Murphy, M. Rigney, M. L. Brown, 500l. to 600l., with seniority allowance of 40l.

Sanitation Branch.

Deputy Director of Sanitary Service, H. O'Hara-May, 1,400l. and 280l. duty allowance.

Senior Sanitary Officers, W. M. Howells and A. Robertson, 1,050l. by 50l. to 1,200l., with duty allowance of 210l.

Medical Officers of Health, J. H. Owen-Flood, D. Lennox, W. Chisholm, J. F. Southward, W. D. Whamond, V. E. Whitman, J. H. Dobbin, A. D. Cust, G. R. Baxter, 800l. by 40l. to 960l., with seniority allowance of 72l., and staff pay of 150l.

Women Medical Officers, M. C. Chappel, B. A. S. Russell, C. D. Williams, M. K. Lawlor, 660l. by 40l. to 720l. to 960l.; 1,000l. by 50l. to 1,150l.: with seniority allowance of 72l.

Senior Superintendent Sanitary Inspector, (vacant), 450l. to 720l.

Medical Research Institute.

Deputy Director Laboratory Service, (in abeyance), 1,300l. with 280l. duty allowance.

Senior Pathologist, A. S. Burgess, 1,000l. to 1,150l., with seniority allowance of 100l. and staff pay of 150l.

Pathologists, G. Robinson and W. Thomson, 800l. to 1,150l., with seniority allowance of 72l. and staff pay of 150l.

For Scales A to C, see footnote on page 304.
Animal Health Department.

Principal Veterinary Officer, Capt. J. L. Stewart, M.C., B.Sc., M.R.C.V.S., 960l., and 96l. duty allowance.
Veterinary Officers, W. C. L. Orr, B.Sc., M.R.C.V.S., A. Fulton, M.R.C.V.S., J. MacDonald, M.R.C.V.S., S. Simpson, M.R.C.V.S., 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l., and 72l. seniority allowance from 720l.
Inspector of Livestock, Lieut. A. E. Miller, M.C., 480l. by 30l. to 720l.
Senior Laboratory Assistant, W. H. Heynes, 500l. by 25l. to 600l.

Education Department.

Director of Education, D. J. Oman, O.B.E., V.D., 1,200l., duty allowance 240l., and personal allowance of 100l.
Assistant Director of Education, T. D. Cranston, 1,050l., duty allowance 210l.
Inspectors of Schools, Capt. H. D. Harrison, W. J. D. Wadley, J. S. Dunn, M. G. Smith, H. H. Spafford, T. Barton, J. B. Flynn, W. R. Allen, K. J. Dickens, J. Wilson, M. F. G. Wentworth, Miss L. M. Tucker, and Miss E. M. Allen, Scale C.
African Inspectors of Schools, V. A. Tettey and J. A. Addo, 400l. by 25l. to 600l. by 36l. to 780l.

Accra Technical School.

Principal, H. C. Weston, 960l., duty allowance 96l.
European Masters, G. Sutton, T. M. Ritchie.

Junior Trade Schools.

Capt. H. G. Hendrie, R. Horsley, B. D. Burnett, Scale C.

Government Primary Schools.

African Headmistress, Miss M. K. Quartey-Papasio, 400l. by 25l. to 600l.

Department of Agriculture.

Headquarters.

Director, G. G. Auchinleck, M.Sc.(McGill), F.I.C., 1,200l. and 240l. duty allowance.
Deputy Director, H. B. Waters, B.A., 1,000l., and 200l. duty allowance.
Assistant Director, A. C. Miles (acting), 960l. with duty allowance of 96l.
Accountant and Office Superintendent, J. M. Dunbar, 400l. by 15l. to 430l., 450l. by 30l. to 720l.

Agricultural Staff.

Superintendents and Assistant Superintendents, A. W. Paterson, N.D.A., N.D.D., Capt. G. C. Coull, B.Sc., James Steele, M.C., N.D.A., N.D.D., H. K. Hewison, A.I.C.T.A., W. H. Beckett, M.A., Dip.Agric., J. C. Muir, B.Sc., N.D.A., N.D.D., F. A. Robb, B.Sc., N.D.A., B. T. Steemson, B.A., E. M. Cook, Dip.Agric., J. E. Symond, A.I.C.T.A., J. M. gate, A.I.C.T.A., J. L. Scott, B.Sc., C. W. J. Line, B.A., A.R.C.S.I., L. J. Packham, A.R.C.S.I., N.D.A., G. Cowan, N.D.A., N.D.D., A.I.C.T.A., C. L. Skidmore, B.Sc., Dip.Agric., A.I.C.T.A., J. T. H. Stein, B.Sc., J. M. Ward, N.D.A., N.D.D., C. W. Lynn, Dip.Agric., 480l., 510l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.
African Assistant Superintendent, E. W. A. B. Sam, B.Sc., 400l. by 25l. to 600l. by 36l. to 780l.
Senior Inspectors of Plants and Produce, W. R. Hudson, E. D. Hill, 600l. by 30l. to 720l.
Inspectors of Plants and Produce, S. T. Phillips, H. L. Hill, G. D. Ross, H. E. Green, R. J. T. Hooke, B.A., F. R. B. Mullan, B.A., A. D. T. Montagu, D.P.S.A., Alfred Qvist, U.D.A., N.D.A., E. L. Hay, B.Sc. (Agric.), R. J. W. Grimm, C.D.A., G. R. Spurrell, B.A., J. K. Cox, R.D.A., R.D.D., R. Kinloch, N.D.A., N.D.D., C.D.A., C.D.D., James Wright, B.Sc., A.I.C.T.A., T. G. Strangeways, M.A., W. F. Gwilliam, C.D.A., N.D.A., 480l. by 30l. to 600l.

Laboratory Staff.

Mycologist, H. A. Dade, A.R.C.S., 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.
Entomologist, G. S. Cotterell, A.R.C.S., D.I.C., 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.
Chemist, M. Greenwood, M.Sc., 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.
Botanist, T. L. Williams, B.A., Dip.Agric., A.I.C.T.A., 600l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

Training Centre.

Superintendent, H. Nicholas, B.A., 480l. to 510l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.
Assistant Superintendent, J. D. Broatch, B.Sc., 480l., 510l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l., with seniority allowance of 72l. from 720l.

Forestry Department.

Conservator of Forests, (vacant), 1,200l., duty allowance 240l.
Deputy Conservator of Forests, Capt. R. W. Brent, M.C., 960l., duty allowance 96l.
Assistant Conservators of Forests, H. W. Moor, Capt. G. S. Greene, P. G. Arnold, L. C. Rowney, J. A. Willis, Vigne, A. J. Cox, G. M. Tolmie, W. T. S. Brown, F. E. Hughes, G. C. Beavan, I. A. Beveridge, F. J. Lyon, F. G. Harper, Scale C.

Mines Department.

Secretary for Mines, A. T. Roberts, B.Sc., A.M.I.C.E., M.I.M.M., F.G.S., 1,200l., and 240l. duty allowance.
Inspector of Mines, Capt. R. P. Wild, F.G.S., M.Inat.M.M., Scale C.
Inspector of Machinery, P. V. R. Bray, A.M.I.Mech.E., A.M.I.Mar.E., Scale C.

Geological Survey.

Director of Geological Survey, Major N. R. Junner, M.C., D.Sc., D.I.C., M.I.M.M., 1,200l., and duty allowance 240l.
Assistant Director of Geological Survey, (vacant), 960l., and duty allowance 96l.
Geologists, W. G. G. Cooper, Ph.D., B.Sc.(Engineering), A.R.C.S., F.G.S., A.I.M.M., D. P. McGregor, B.Sc., J. W. Lunn, B.Sc., Ph.D., F.G.S., 540l. by 30l. to 720l. by 40l. to 920l., plus seniority allowance 72l. from 720l.
Superintendent of Records (London Office), W. T. James.

The Gold Coast Regiment, R.W.A.F.F. (2 Battalions)

Regimental Commander, Colonel H. H. Beattie, 1,200l., and 10s. per day duty pay.
Staff Officer, Captain A. C. F. Jackson, 750l., and 5s. per day duty pay.
Quartermaster, Captain W. M. Harrington, M.C., M.M., 700l. by 25l. to 800l.
O.C., 1st Battalion, (vacant), 850l., and 5s. per day command pay.
O.C. 2nd Battalion, Major L. C. Heygate, 850l., and 5s. per day command pay.

For Scales A to C, see footnote on page 304.
2nd-in-Command, 1st Battalion, Captain C. C. Rice, 750l.
2nd-in-Command, 2nd Battalion, Captain W. Macfarlane, 700l.
Adjutant, 1st Battalion, Lieut. H. Wood, 600l., and 5s. per day duty pay.
Adjutant, 2nd Battalion, Lieut. G. W. Lathbury, 700l., and 5s. per day duty pay.
O.C., Signal Section, Lieut. A. G. Ames, 600l.
O.C., Depot, Lieut. F. A. Smith, 600l., and 3s. per day duty pay.
2 Battery Officers, 600l.
6 Company Commanders, 700l.
18 Company Officers (eight at 600l., ten at 510l.).

The Gold Coast Territorial Force.
Officer Commanding, Lt.-Colonel H. J. L. Cavanaugh.
Adjutant, Lieut. F. T. B. Johnson, The Loyal Regiment, 600l. and 5s. per day duty pay.

The Gold Coast Defence Force.
Officer Commanding, Lt.-Colonel S. B. Keast, M.C.
Adjutant, Lieut. F. T. B. Johnson, The Loyal Regt.

Police Department.
Inspector-General of Police, Lt.-Col. H. W. M. Bamford, O.B.E., M.C., 1,200l., and 240l. duty allowance.
Staff Officer, Major C. T. Williams, O.B.E., Scale A.
Commissioners of Police, Criminal Investigation Department, N. S. Mansergh, M.B.E., A. W. G. Moorman, Scale A.
Senior Commissioners of Police, Capt. L. S. D. H. Venour, V. E. R. de Carteret, 960l. and 96l. duty allowance.
Commissioners and Assistant Commissioners of Police, H. J. O'Connor, Capt. K. W. Thompson, Major F. L. Hamilton, M.C., E. F. L. Penno, J. C. Piegrome, M.C., Capt. H. M. Mitchell, M.C., C. E. Duruty, M.C., Capt. P. Eckel, M. L. Fraser, Major B. A. S. Bennett, Capt. D. S. Gowing, J. E. Workman, J. P. Gildea, Capt. C. E. Wingrove, R. Tottenham, G. C. Grand, H. P. Morris, W. A. Govan, Major F. C. Prickett, O.B.E., M.C., S. C. Sinclair, R. A. Jones, M.C., C. J. Pym, Major R. J. A. Betham, Capt. N. G. Maclean, G. E. Gilbey, Capt. L. J. Mothersill, F. F. W. S. Williams, L. A. Hagen, Scale A.

Prisons Department.
Director of Prisons, H. J. L. Cavanaugh, 960l., and 96l. duty allowance.
Senior Prison Superintendent, C. H. Conn, 540l. by 30l. to 720l.

Survey Department.
Surveyor General, J. Clendenning, B.Sc., A.M.I.C.E., 1,200l., plus 240l. duty allowance.
Assistant Surveyor General, Capt. S. C. Saward, M.C., M.M., 960l. and 96l. duty allowance.
Office Assistant and Accountant, (vacant), Scale A, maximum 720l.
Record Keeper and Cartographer, F. C. Blake, Scale C.
Chief Draughtsman, G. D. Meredith, Scale C, maximum 800l.
Instructor, Survey School, W. Cutland, Scale C.
Computer and Examiner, (vacant), Scale C.
Surveyors, K. M. Vaughan, C. R. Petty, G. C. Rogerson, M.C., W. Gemmell, E. W. Kenward, Major E. W. Nesham, Capt. C. L. M. Douet, B.Sc., E. W. W. Brown and Capt. A. E. W. Nesbitt, M.C., Scale C.
African Surveyor, K. Asante, 400l. by 26l. to 600l. by 36l. to 780l.

Lands Department.
Commissioner of Lands, H. E. G. Bartlett, 1,350l., plus 270l. duty allowance.
Assistant Commissioners of Lands, G. W. Stacpoole, J. A. Rioe, E. W. Davies, W. T. Roe, J. P. Feeny, Scale C.
Executive Officer and Officer-in-Charge of Records, H. F. Skelton, Scale A.
Officer in Charge Records, I. S. Thomas, Scale A.
Record Draughtsman, L. G. Devereux, Scale C, with maximum of 900l.
Surveyor and Inspector of Lands, A. C. Pratley, Scale C.

Transport Department.
Chief Transport Officer, B. Nichols, F.R.G.S., A.M.Inst.T., 720l. by 40l. to 920l., plus 80l. duty allowance.
Engineer Transport Officers, A. H. Cruickshank, M.I.Mar.E., Capt. E. Doole, R.E. (R. of O.), A.M.I.M.E., Scale C.
Accountant, J. A. Kelly, Scale A, maximum 720l.

Public Works Department.
Director of Public Works, Major S. Banks Keast, M.C., R.E. (R. of O.), 1,500l., plus 300l. duty allowance.
Deputy Director of Public Works, P. Hall, A.M.I.C.E., 1,200l., plus 240l. duty allowance.
Assistant Director of Public Works, J. L. Longbottom, B.Sc.(London), A.M.I.C.E., 1,050l., plus 210l. duty allowance.
Senior Public Health Engineer, L. M. Grover, A.M.I.C.E.I., M.S.E., P.A.S.I., 960l., plus 96l. duty allowance.
Senior Hydraulic Engineer, J. R. Roberts, A.M.I.C.E., A.M.I.W.E., 960l., plus 96l. duty allowance.
Chief Mechanical and Electrical Engineer, F. Hinton, 960l., plus 96l. duty allowance.
Senior Provincial Engineer, H. Dyson, A.M.I.C.E., 960l., plus 96l. duty allowance.
Chief Accountant, T. M. Logan, M.M., 800l. to 920l., plus 80l. duty allowance.
Structural Engineer, H. Cooper, M.I.Struct.E., Scale C.
Architect, C. S. Morley, A.R.I.B.A., A.M.I.Struct.E., Scale C.
Executive Engineers, G. C. Cuthbert, M.S.E., A.I.Struct.E., R. M. Fisher, J. Cumming, Major C. Alderson, D.S.O., M.I.M.&C.E., N. J. Silcock, A.M.I.M.& C.E., M.S.E., C. J. Rigby, M.M., W. A. Coveney, A.M.I.C.E., G. F. Stewart, A.M.I.C.E., J. W. Watts, J. W. Croxford, M.I.M.& C.E., A. Drury, A.M.I.C.E., A. G. McPherson, A.M.I.M.& C.E., A.R.S.L., W. L. North, A.M.I.C.E., F. S. Drake, M.I.M.& C.E., A. V. S. Henderson, B.A.I., J. H. F. Sharkie, A.M.I.C.E., Scale C.
Public Health Engineer, W. R. Sheffield, A.M.I.C.E., 600l. to 920l.
Maintenance Engineer, Water Works, D. W. McCulloch, A.I.W.E., Scale C.
Mechanical and Electrical Engineers, G. H. C. Stupart, A.I.E.E., J. C. L. Taylor, T. F. Quinlan, A.M.I.M.E., B. F. Smith-Cleburne, J. Maiden, G. N. Watts, A.M.I.Mar.E., R. M. S. Dowling, A.M.I.M.E., Scale C.
Engineering Chemist, H. E. Course, A.I.C., Scale C.
Assistant Chief Accountant, J. D. Haugh, Scale A, maximum 800l.
Accountant, R. E. Hunt, Scale A, maximum 800l.
Assistant Accountant, J. A. Hutchinson, W. T. Taylor, A. E. Edwards, J. H. Julyan, R. L. Grennan, A.C.R.A., A.C.C.S., R. A. Bignell, E. W. Pudney, A.C.A., Scale A, maximum 720l.
Mechanical Storekeeper, J. L. G. Jones, Scale A, maximum 800l.

For Scales A to C, see footnote on page 304.
For Bosans A to C, see footnote on page 320.

an area of ten square miles. The granite hills which surround it rise between 2,000 and 3,000 feet above the river. Ftord by the Treaty of Nanping in January, 1841; the disorders resulting from it were finally abolished by the treaty.

in this eastern region, partly the consequence of trade between China and India, partly caused by the discovery of gold in California (1848-49).

which is the center of Victoria.团圆蒋_wraced

processes.. and the character were destroyed. flavoring which surrounded it are thresh, Briête in January, 1841; the disorder resulting from it were finally abolished by the treaty.

which was destroyed by the barbarians.

which are subdivided in sets тогда heat hire checker(inter이며아버지(useikówเครีย)

winter, when the boats in town, another failure,

or eligible, potatoes were then substantial ( בתחום nurses time to boast, broad, 

 Orange te ToL-40 paramilitary groups more than 25,000 reveal report rapids concert balloons which the southern Niccolò J.Sh

between the coast east, west, and Gaul.

efforts were concentrated

 trotz physicist research.  

	at an age of Lopes comes.
2nd-in-C. 750l.
2nd-in-C. farland
Adjutant,
6s. per
Adjutant,
700l., 4
O.C., Sig
O.C., Deq
day du
2 Battery
6 Company
18 Compa

Officer Co
Adjutant,

Officer Co
Adjutant,

Inspector:
ford, O.
Staff Offic
Commissi
Departm
Moorm
Senior C
Venour
allowan
Commissi
H. J. &
F. L. F
grome,
Duruty
B. A. S.
J. P. G
ham, G
Major I
R. A.
Betham
Capt. I
L. A. B

Director q
96l. dut
Senior Pr
30l. to

Surveyor i
1,200l.,
Assistant .
M.M., 9
Office Ass
maximt
Record Re
Chief Dra
num SC
Instructor,
Computer
Surveyors
son, V
E. V
E. V
Sea
African
36l. t

For,

Mechanical Storekeeper, J. L.
maximum 800l.

For Scales A to C, see foo
European Building Inspectors, H. O. Ventress, A.M.I.S.E., Scale A, maximum 800L; J. H. Hutchison, A.M.I.S.E., A.M.I.Struct.E., Scale A, maximum 800L; T. E. J. King, A.M.I.S.E., Scale A, maximum 800L; A. C. Fairbrother, M.C., Scale A, maximum 720L; H. L. Evans, Scale A, maximum 720L; J. W. McIntyre, Scale A, maximum 720L.

Chief Inspectors of Works, A. H. M. Harding, E. A. Bradfield, M.S.M., W. J. Twydell, 600L.

Filter Superintendent, H. Pank, D.S.M., 600L.

Station Engineers, W. H. Evans, R. Macaulay, E. Fitton, H. Hornfall, E. A. White, W. J. Veal, 500L to 600L.

---

