SWAZILAND.

Situation and Area.

Swaziland is bounded on the North, West, and South by the Transvaal, and on the East by Portuguese territory and Tongaland, now part of Natal.

Its area is approximately 6,630 square miles.

Description and Climate.

The territory is divided geographically into three longitudinal regions.

The mountainous region on the West approximates an altitude of over 4,000 feet.

What is known as the Middle Veld is some 2,000 feet lower, while the Low Veld, bounded on the East by the Lebombo Mountains, attains an average altitude of not more than 1,000 feet. The first two regions are well watered and healthy, but the Low Veld cannot be described as either.

Mbabane, the headquarters of the Administration, is situated on the hills at an altitude of 4,300 feet, and Bremerstorp, the old capital, is on the Middle Veld. There are no other European villages.

History.

Swaziland, known to the natives as "Kwangwane," has been in the occupation of the Swazi tribes for a considerable period, and the present Ama-Swazi are no doubt the descendants of the early Bantu invaders, who occupied the country contemporaneously with the occupation of adjacent territory by allied tribes. The history of the consolidation into a nation of a congeries of tribes dates from early in the eighteenth century, when the adoption of a military organisation led to the dominance of one tribe over the others.

Certain "Medicine" and rain cattle were captured from Nikukuni by the Swazis, who lent assistance in the operations against that chief in the time of the first British occupation of the Transvaal, and the possession of this rain medicine has invested the paramount chief of Swaziland, in the minds of the natives of South Africa, with high authority as a rain maker.

The Swazis, while strong enough to repel a Zulu invasion, were nevertheless subject to the aggression of these neighbours, who, with the Boers, claimed authority over the country. In the Conventions of Pretoria (1881), and London (1884) Her Majesty's Government, however, expressly stipulated for the independence of Swaziland.

During the eighties the King "Mbandini" granted concessions for certain sums and periods. Every conceivable right was granted away, not only for land, minerals, grazing, and timber, but also for all imaginable purposes, including exemption from taxes, railways, telegraphs, mining patents, collection of the King's revenue, trading, etc., etc. All unallotted lands and minerals also formed the subject of concessions.

In 1888 a charter of self-government was granted to the whites in the country. Later, in 1890, under a Convention between Her Majesty's Government and the South African Republic, a provisional Government was, with the consent of the Swazis, set up, consisting of a Government Committee composed of representatives of those two Powers, and a representative of the Swazis, a Government Secretary, and of a Chief Court. This Court adjudicated on the initial validity of all concessions granted by the King, and, with few exceptions, confirmed the grants in respect of such initial validity.

In accordance with pledges given to the Government of the South African Republic the provisional Administration came to an end three years later, when the British Government signed a fresh Convention, which permitted the South African Republic to acquire from the Regent and her Council an Organic Proclamation conferring on the South African Republic rights of jurisdiction, legislation and administration without incorporation in the South African Republic. The Swazis never signed the Organic Proclamation which had been drafted for them, and accordingly its
provisions, with some of those in the 1893 Convention, were embodied in the final Convention of 1894, under which the South African Republic exercised powers of protection, legislation, jurisdiction and administration in Swaziland, subject to the limitations of the Convention.

On the conquest of the Transvaal, all the rights and powers of the late South African Republic passed to His Majesty, but since the other party to the Convention of 1894 had disappeared without the limitations therein, an Order in Council under the Foreign Jurisdiction Act was issued in June, 1903, providing that the Governor of the Transvaal should administer Swaziland, and conferring on him the right to legislate by Proclamation.

On the cessation of hostilities a British Special Commissioner, with a small force of South African Constabulary, was sent into the country, and a provisional Administration was established.

In accordance with the powers granted to him, the Governor issued a Proclamation in 1904 providing for administration and for dealing with the concessions question. The Laws of the Transvaal in force at that date of the Proclamation were applied to Swaziland, mutatis mutandis. Courts were established with the right of appeal to the Supreme Court of the Transvaal, and an appeal was permitted from the decisions of the chiefs in civil matters to the Court of the Resident Magistrate. The chiefs were otherwise confirmed in their civil jurisdiction over natives, subject to the exclusion of usages repugnant to civilisation.

The Commission constituted under the Proclamation of 1904 to deal with the concessions examined the concessions granting exclusive rights, except exclusive rights to land and minerals, with a view to their expropriation at their value prior to the commencement of hostilities. The Commission reported in 1906, and the concessions, the subject of its report, were, with a few exceptions, expropriated. The Commission has now dealt with the question of boundaries of land, mineral and grazing concessions. The general survey of these concessions, necessary to determine the conflicting rights, is almost complete. The Proclamation of 1904 further provided for the settlement of the rights of the natives, which in a modified form, is now in course of completion.

By an Order in Council, dated 1st December, 1906, His Majesty's Government transferred the control of Swaziland from the Governor of the Transvaal to the High Commissioner for South Africa. Under the Order in Council the High Commissioner issued a Proclamation in March, 1907, providing for the appointment of a Resident Commissioner, a Government Secretary, Assistant Commissioners and the establishment of a Police Force. The Laws of the Transvaal were re-enacted, mutatis mutandis, and, except where modified by Statute, the Roman-Dutch Common Law was put in force by the Proclamation. Besides the Courts of the Resident Commissioner and Assistant Commissioners, a special court was established to deal with serious civil and criminal cases in which Europeans are concerned.

The paramount chief and other chiefs were confirmed in their Civil Jurisdiction over natives subject to appeal to the Resident Commissioner's Court. Provision was made for the Swaziland Deeds Office and Surveyor-General's Office to remain at Pretoria under control of the officers responsible prior to the date of the Proclamation.

**Population.**

The population of Swaziland is, according to the census of 1904, 84,601 natives and 890 whites.

The Swazi are a kindred race to the Zulu. They have easily accessible markets for their labour, both locally and in the Transvaal, but their efforts in this direction are spasmodic.

The paramount chief is "Sobhuza," a boy of about ten years of age. His grandmother, "Nabotsibeni," widow of "Mbandini," acts as Regent, and has the assistance of a council of chiefs. A few of the principal chiefs are:

- Nogcogo Dhlamini, brother of Mbandini.
- Jokovu Dhlamini.
- Malunge Dhlamini, son of Mbandini.
- Ndabazwe Dhlamini.
- Silelo Naubande.
- Makambane Fakude.
- Sihielo Madhluli.
- Ntshingela Simelana.
- Tikuba Dhlamini.

The English Church Mission, The South Africa General Mission, and the Scandinavian Alliance Mission have representatives in the country.

The Administration has a native school at Zombodi, the kraal of the Regent, at which the young paramount chief attends, and has schools for European children at Bremerdorp and Hlatikulu.

**Industries.**

The principal industry is tin mining, which is carried on extensively in the neighbourhood of Mbabane. During the year ended March 31st, 1908, tin valued at approximately 49,568£ was shipped from Swaziland.

A certain amount of gold mining has been done, resulting in an output, during the year of 13,203£. All mining is carried on under concession. Coal of a good quality has been found in the Low Veld over a large area.

Experiments are being conducted in cotton growing, with encouraging results.

The western portion of Swaziland serves as a winter grazing ground for sheep from the Transvaal. Approximately 100,000 sheep entered and left the country between the months of May and September, 1908.

Stores exist where necessary to serve the needs of the population.

There is a branch of the National Bank of South Africa, Limited, at Mbabane, as also a Post Office Savings Bank. The currency is exclusively British.

The agricultural products are:—Millet, maize, pumpkins, ground-nuts, etc.

**Revenue and Expenditure.**

The revenue and expenditure for the year ending March 31st, 1908, are as follows:

- Revenue: £39,529.
- Expenditure: £57,568.

The excess of expenditure over revenue is accounted for by the costs of the Concession Commission, the general survey of concessions, the expropriation of monopolies, and the settlement of native rights.

The public debt on April 1st, 1908, was 35,000£.
Imports and Exports.

Imports for the year ending March 31st, 1908, amounted in value to £37,850l., and exports for the same period to £63,148l.

The imports consisted of maize, flour, groceries, apparel, cotton and woollen manufactures, hardware, spirits, tobacco, sugar, etc., while the exports were represented by cassiterite tin and raw gold.

Swaziland Administration.

Establishment.

Resident Commissioner, R. T. Coryndon, 1,200l., and 380l. horse and travelling allowances.

Government Secretary, de S. M. G. Honey, 800l.

Chief Clerk, B. H. Warner, B.A., 500l.

Clerks, L. G. Luscombe, 375l.; T. A. F. Steward, 310l.; R. E. V. Saunders, 260l. and 50l. allowance.

Assistant Commissioner, Hlatikulu District, B. Nicholson, D.S.O., 570l., and 150l. horse and travelling allowances, also draws 100l. personal allowance.

Clerk, A. H. Pitcher, 350l.

Assistant Commissioner, Hoho District, C. R. I. Ross Garner, 570l., and 150l. horse and travelling allowances.

Assistant Commissioner, Mbalane District, A. G. Marwick, 570l., and 150l. horse and travelling allowances.

Clerk, H. B. A. McCarter, 260l.

Assistant Commissioner, Uvombo District, M. W. Whitridge, 570l., and 150l. horse and travelling allowances, also draws 100l. climatic allowance.

Police.

Assistant Commissioner in charge, Capt. C. H. Gilson, D.S.O., 570l., and 225l. horse and travelling allowances.

Sub-Inspectors, G. A. Morris, 350l., and 100l. personal allowance; D. H. Harvey, 350l., and 20l. personal allowance; J. T. G. Maber, 310l., and 55l. climatic allowance. Each sub-inspector draws 75l. horse and travelling allowances.

Medical Officer, Capt. R. Clark Perkins, D.S.O., 600l., and 175l. horse and travelling allowances.

Government Veterinary Surgeon, W. A. Elder, 520l., and 150l. horse and travelling allowances.

The South African Customs Statistical Bureau.

As a result of the Conference of Customs Officers, held in March, 1904, the various Governments in the Customs Union agreed to the establishment as from the 1st of July, 1905, of a South African Customs Statistical Bureau, whose headquarters are at Cape Town. This Bureau compiles all statistics relating to the imports into and exports from all the Colonies and Territories in the Customs Union, as well as those relating to inter-colonial trade. The Bureau is also charged with the apportionment of the customs duties due to each Colony or Territory on imported goods entered for consumption therein.

Principal, A. J. S. Lewis, 950l.

Customs Union Clerk, N. Dallas Forbes, 600l.

Clerk and Accountant, F. Fisher, 475l.

Clerk and Examiner of Accounts, A. G. Ashley, 425l.

Senior Statistical Clerk, J. G. Bam, 450l.

68 Clerks, 50l. to 395l.

(c)

RHODESIA.*

Rhodesia (so called after the late Right Hon. Cecil J. Rhodes) is the name of the country under the administration of the British South Africa Company, whose principal field of operations was defined in its Charter of Incorporation as "the region of South Africa lying immediately to the north of British Bechuanaland, and to the north and west of the South African Republic, and to the west of the Portuguese Dominions." Of these extensive territories the Company is now responsible for the administration of the following portions:

1. Southern Rhodesia, or the provinces of Mashonaland and Matabeleland (area 148,575 square miles).

2. Northern Rhodesia, or the whole of the British sphere lying between the Portuguese Settlements, German East Africa, and the Congo Free State, with the exception of the strip of territory forming the British Central Africa Protectorate. It is divided into two provinces—North-Eastern Rhodesia and North-Western Rhodesia. The area of the former is estimated at 109,000 square miles, and the latter at 182,000 square miles.

I.—SOUTHERN RHODESIA.

The limits of Southern Rhodesia, as defined by the Southern Rhodesia Order in Council, dated 20th October, 1898, are the parts of South Africa bounded by the Portuguese Possessions, by the Transvaal Colony to a point opposite the mouth of the River Shashi, by the River Shashi to its junction with the Tati and Ramaquaban rivers, thence by the Ramaquaban river to its source, thence by the watershed to the Rivers Shashi and Ramaquaban until such watershed strikes the Hunter's Road (called the Pandamanenka Road), thence by that road to the River Zambesi, and by that river to the Portuguese boundary. The said limits include an area of ten miles' radius round Fort Tuli, but exclude the area of the district known as the Tati district defined by the Charter.

II.—NORTHERN RHODESIA.

This territory is divided into two provinces:

(a.) Barotziland-North-Western Rhodesia.

(b.) North-Eastern Rhodesia.

(a.) The limits of Barotziland-North-Western Rhodesia are the parts of Africa bounded on the North by the Congo Free State, on the West by Portuguese West Africa, on the South by the River Zambesi, and on the East by North-Eastern Rhodesia.

(b.) The limits of North-Eastern Rhodesia are the parts of Africa bounded on the west by the boundaries of the Congo Free State and of Barotziland-North-Western Rhodesia; on the south by Portuguese East Africa; on the east by the British Central Africa Protectorate; and on the north by the German East Africa frontier, the south shore of Lake Tanganyika, and the southern frontier of the Congo Free State as far west as Lake Mweru, including the Island of Kilwa in the British sphere.

*The information in this notice is kindly supplied by the British South Africa Company.
History.

On the 29th October, 1889, a Royal Charter was granted to the British South Africa Company, conferring upon it large powers of administration to carry out the objects for which it was formed, the principal being to extend northwards the railway and telegraph systems of the Cape Colony and Bechuanaland, to encourage emigration and colonisation, to promote trade and commerce, and to develop and work mineral and other concessions.

Early in 1890 a police force of Europeans was raised and equipped, and in June of that year, after obtaining permission from King Lo Bengula, a pioneer expedition on a large scale was organised to cut a road from a point on the Macloutsie River, a tributary of the Limpopo, through the south-eastern part of Matabeleland into Mashonaland, the objective point of the expedition being Mount Hampden, near which large belts of gold-bearing quartz were known to exist. This point was reached on 12th September, 1890. The pioneers were then disbanded, and, in accordance with the agreement made with them, were allowed to peg off auriferous claims and farms.

In July, 1893, the Matalele made a raid into Mashonaland, and killed several natives living under the Company's protection, near Victoria, when they were attacked and driven back by the Company's police. After an unsuccessful attempt to arrange matters, preparations were made for the invasion of Matabeleland, to anticipate an expected attack on the Bechuanaland Protectorate and Mashonaland. The Company's police and a large force of volunteers and native allies advanced on Bulawayo from the north and east, while the Bechuanaland Police, which had been largely reinforced, advanced with Khama and some 2,000 of his men by way of Tati from the south. Two successful engagements were fought by the Company's forces near Bulawayo, in which the Matalele suffered very severely. The Bechuanaland police were also attacked by a strong force of Matalele, which they repulsed with great loss. Lo Bengula fled, and Bulawayo was occupied, and a force sent in pursuit of the king.

This force was unfortunately divided by the sudden rising of the River Shangani, and Major Wilson with a small party of men were, after a heroic resistance killed to a man. Arrangements for the future administration of the country were completed by the High Commissioner and Mr. Rhodes on behalf of the Company. Lo Bengula, who was said to be endeavouring to escape across the Zambesi, is reported to have died from small-pox or fever.

At the end of 1895, occurred Dr. Jameson's raid into the Transvaal (see also under Bechuanaland Protectorate), which resulted in measures being taken to give the High Commissioner increased control over the Company's administration, especially the police. These were subsequently embodied in the Southern Rhodesia Order in Council, 1898.

In 1896, owing to a variety of causes, the Matalele broke out in rebellion, and shortly after the Mashonas followed suit. Imperial troops had to be sent to the assistance of the Company's police and volunteers, and it was only after a prolonged struggle that peace was secured.

The rinderpest, which for several years had been devastating Africa, travelling slowly through the continent from north to south, made its first appearance in Matabeleland in February, 1896. The adoption of the drastic regulations which the administration decided to enforce had to some extent checked the progress of the epidemic, when the outbreak of the rebellion put a stop to all precautionary measures.

In March, 1898, a system of compulsory inoculation for rinderpest was established, and the precautions taken have proved very effective. No case has since been recorded, and the disease has been finally stamped out.

From 1897 to 1899 the development of the country advanced rapidly, but the outbreak of the war with the Republics, in October, practically put a stop to progressive work of every kind, and for months the territory was completely cut off from the south.

On the outbreak of hostilities Colonel (now Major-General) Baden-Powell was in supreme command of all the forces in Southern Rhodesia and the Bechuanaland Protectorate. When Mafeking was invested the command of the Rhodesian forces devolved upon Colonel Plumer, who was stationed at Tuli with a force of 450 men. In November, 1899, Martial Law was proclaimed in certain districts in Matabeleland, and, at a later date, in the whole territory, and the Southern Rhodesia Volunteers, to the number of 800, were called out for active service.

At the beginning of January, 1900, Colonel Plumer moved his column to Palachwe and assumed direct command of the troops in the Protectorate, amongst whom were included 600 Volunteers and over 400 men of the British South Africa Police. Mafeking was successfully relieved by Mahon and Plumer's united columns on the 17th May.

In the early part of 1900 a force of 5,000 men, consisting of Australian, New Zealand and Canadian Volunteers, and English Yeomanry, was despatched to Rhodesia, via Beira, under the command of General Sir Frederick Carrington. This force was sent to the front as speedily as possible, two companies of Militia Infantry being retained at Bulawayo as a garrison.

The Administration of Southern Rhodesia estimated that the number of men contributed by Rhodesia was approximately 1,500, being at least 12% per cent. of the European population. Despatches which have been published bear testimony to the good work performed by the Volunteers, Police, and the Rhodesia Regiment, and they have also gained the special approbation of the late Commander-in-Chief.

The attitude of the natives throughout the war was most satisfactory, and, although in some districts there appeared signs of unrest, it was confined to attempts by discontented natives to work up the feelings of the people, who were, however, not affected by them to any appreciable degree.

Martial Law in Southern Rhodesia was withdrawn on the 26th July, 1902.

Since the close of the war Rhodesia has again been making rapid progress in the development of the country, notwithstanding the general depression prevailing throughout South Africa. Steady and marked improvement is reported in all branches of agriculture. The output of gold for the year 1907 has exceeded that for the previous year. The main line of railway to the far north has been completed for 374 miles north of the Zambesi River.
Constitution.

In 1888 that portion of Rhodesia now known as Southern Rhodesia was declared to be within the British sphere of influence, and on the 29th October, 1889, a Royal Charter was granted to the British South Africa Company, conferring upon it large powers of administration to carry out the objects for which it was formed.

At an Extraordinary General Meeting of the shareholders of the British South Africa Company, held on the 14th of December, 1899, a resolution was passed agreeing to accept the amendments proposed by Her Majesty's Government to be made in the original Charter of the Company by the Supplemental Charter, and a further resolution was passed approving certain alterations in the original Deed of Settlement of the Company. These resolutions were confirmed at a further Extraordinary General Meeting, held on the 10th of January, 1900.

The Constitution of Southern Rhodesia, originally laid down by the Charter, was subsequently amended by the Orders in Council of the 9th May, 1891; 30th July, 1891; and 18th July, 1894, the latter being known as the "Matabeleland Order in Council." This Order was revoked by the Southern Rhodesia Order in Council of 1898, which provides for the Administration of the Territory, Legislation, the Preservation of Peace and Order, the Constitution of Courts of Justice, and Native Administration. This Order was amended by the Southern Rhodesia Order in Council of the 16th February, 1903. Under the Order of 1898 there is a Resident Commissioner appointed by the Secretary of State. To assist the Administrator there is an Executive Council, composed of not less than four members appointed by the Company, with the approval of the Secretary of State. A member of the Executive Council holds office for a period of three years, unless sooner removed by the Company, but is eligible for re-appointment at the end of each term of office. There is also a Legislative Council, consisting of the Administrator (President), seven nominees of the Company approved by the Secretary of State, and seven members elected by the Registered Voters. The Resident Commissioner sits on both Executive and Legislative Councils, but without a vote. Ordinances passed by the Legislative Council, when assented to by the High Commissioner, take effect immediately, but, within a year, may be disallowed by the Secretary of State. The duration of each Legislative Council is three years. The first Legislative Council was elected in 1899. The number of Registered Voters in 1908 was 5,291.

By a Proclamation, dated 10th June, 1891, the laws of the Cape Colony, passed prior to that date, were adopted for and are to be administered in Rhodesia as far as the circumstances of the country will permit. The laws of the Cape Colony passed subsequent to that date do not apply to Rhodesia.

For the Administration of Justice there is a High Court with civil and criminal jurisdiction, the judges being appointed by the Secretary of State, on the nomination of the Company. In the districts there are Magistrates' Courts. Appeals from the High Court lie to the Supreme Court of the Cape of Good Hope, and thence to the Privy Council.

The administrative systems of North-Eastern and North-Western Rhodesia are prescribed by the "North-Eastern Rhodesia Order in Council, 1900," and the "Barotziland-North-Western Rhodesia Order in Council, 1899," under which the administrations of those territories are placed under the control of H.M. Commissioner and Consul-General for British Central Africa and the High Commissioner for South Africa respectively.

Local Government.

Salisbury and Bulawayo were constituted municipalities in October, 1897. Sanitary Boards are appointed for the other principal townships.

Native Administration.

The Native Department of Southern Rhodesia is administered by the Secretary for Native Affairs, the duties of the office at the present time being undertaken by the Administrator. The two provinces are each under the control of a Chief Native Commissioner (who is responsible to the Secretary for Native Affairs), and are divided into native districts, 18 in Mashonaland and 10 in Matabeleland. Each district is in charge of a Native Commissioner or Assistant Native Commissioner, who is appointed by the Administrator, with the approval of the High Commissioner, as laid down in the "Southern Rhodesia Order in Council, 1898," and whose duties are defined by the High Commissioner's Proclamation, No. 4 of 1902 (promulgated 2nd December, 1904).

Formerly the natives were scattered throughout the country, but now land has been reserved for tribal settlements which is suitable for their agricultural and pastoral requirements.

The only tax imposed upon them is an annual hut-tax of 1/-. Excellent provision has been made for those who go to work at the mines. Compounds have been erected and hospitals provided at most of the mines, which are periodically visited by Government Inspectors; their contracts are supervised by officials who see that the terms are faithfully fulfilled, and in the event of injustice they have their remedy in a court of law under the "Master's and Servant's Ordinance." A native at the mines can easily earn from 30s. to £1 a month with food and lodging.

Defence.

The defence of Southern Rhodesia devolves upon the British South Africa Police and Volunteer Force. The whole of the Military Police Force is under the direct control of the High Commissioner, although paid for by the Company.

On the 5th October, 1903, the 2nd and 3rd Divisions of the Police were amalgamated, and on the 31st December, 1907, the strength of the Police Force was: officers, 36; N.C.O.'s and men, 407; Native Police, 532. At the same date the strength of the Volunteer Force was: Eastern Division (Mashonaland), officers and men, 868; cadets, 34; Western Division (Matabeleland), 980, including cadets, of whom there were 146.

The strength of the Southern Rhodesia Constabulary on the 31st December, 1907, was: Europeans, 81; Native, 64; total 145.

Under an arrangement with the Imperial Government the military forces of British Central Africa are available for the territorial defence of North-Eastern Rhodesia.
Climate.

The Rhodesian plateau lies at an altitude of from 3,000 to 6,000 feet above sea level. Broadly speaking, the year has two divisions, the wet and the dry season. The early rains of the wet season (which is the summer) gradually appear towards the end of October, and increase in frequency and force until about the end of April. From May to September there is practically no rain. Taking into consideration the vast extent of the territory, the climate naturally varies. In the highlands it is very healthy and bracing. Formerly, in the low-lying districts, malarial fever was very prevalent, but with the opening up of the country, better housing and food, it is rapidly disappearing. The death rate for the year 1907 was 13·7 per thousand. The summer is not oppressively hot, nor is the winter very cold. The average shown by the maximum and minimum thermometers in the shade at the principal towns, during 1907, was:

| Town       | Max. | Min. |
|------------|------|------|
| Salisbury  | 75·2 | 59·7 |
| Umtali     | 76·0 | 54·5 |
| Bulawayo   | 75·7 | 53·6 |

Rainfall.

| Town       | Inches |
|------------|--------|
| Salisbury  | 40·45  |
| Umtali     | 52·48  |
| Bulawayo   | 27·46  |

There are hospitals at Salisbury, Bulawayo, Umtali, Victoria, and Gwelo, each supplied with a complete staff of doctors and nurses. Cottage hospitals have also been erected in the districts of Hartley, Enkeldoorn, Selukwe, Gwanda, and Filabusi to meet the wants of the mining centres.

Population.

An intermediate census for Southern Rhodesia was taken on the 29th September, 1907, showing the number of Europeans to be 14,018 (Mashonaland, 6,364; Matabeleland, 7,654). On the 31st December, 1907, the native population was estimated by Native Commissioners to be 662,786 (Mashonaland, 445,316; Matabeleland, 217,470). There were also 2,000 Colonial Natives and Asiatics. The European population of North-Eastern Rhodesia is 243, and of North-Western Rhodesia, 625; the native population is estimated at 906,375 (North-Eastern Rhodesia, 406,375; North-Western Rhodesia, 500,000).

Chief Towns.

The chief towns of Southern Rhodesia are Salisbury (the capital), Umtali and Victoria in Mashonaland; and Bulawayo and Gwelo in Matabeleland. Townships have also been formed at Rusapi, Gwanda, Selukwe, Hartley, Enkeldoorn, Melsetter, and at other places.

Salisbury, the seat of the Government, has a white population of 1,685. The town stands 4,700 feet above sea level. Branches of the Standard Bank, Bank of Africa, and African Banking Corporation have been established. It was constituted a municipality in 1897, and in 1907 the assessed value of rateable property stood at 933,261L

Bulawayo is the commercial centre of Southern Rhodesia, with a white population of 3,502, and stands 4,469 feet above the sea level. It was constituted a municipality in 1897, and the assessed valuation of rateable property in 1907 stood at 1,055,557L Branches of the same banks as at Salisbury have been opened. There is a municipal hospital, which is one of the finest in South Africa. The town is on the main line of railway from Cape Town to the far north, and is distant from Cape Town 1,362 miles.

Railways.

The Bechuanaland Railways (now Rhodesia Railways, Limited) reached Bulawayo on the 19th October, 1897, and was formally opened on the 4th November. An extension of the Beira Railway from Umtali reached Salisbury on the 1st May, 1899, and was opened on the 22nd May. On the 1st August, 1900, the widening of the gauge of the Beira Railway to 3 feet 6 inches, the standard gauge of South Africa, was completed. On the 6th October, 1902, the line was completed between Salisbury and Bulawayo, a distance of 301 miles, thus establishing through communication between Cape Town and Beira (over 2,000 miles). The line passes through the mining districts of Hartley, Sebakwe, Gwelo, Beinbesi, etc. The railway from Bulawayo to the Victoria Falls (282 miles) on the River Zambesi was completed on the 25th April, 1904, and the extension northward has been already constructed, via Kalomo, to the Broken Hill Mine, 374 Miles from the Falls. The Zambesi river is crossed by a bridge 650 feet long, 30 feet wide, and about 420 feet above the level of the water. The structure was formally opened by Sir G. H. Darwin, K.C.B., President of the British Association, on the 12th September, 1905. A line from Bulawayo to the West Nicholson mine in the Gwanda district (120 miles), to open up the gold and coal areas to the south-east, has been constructed, and a line, with a 2-feet gauge, from Salisbury to the Ayrshire Mine in the Lonagundi district (84 miles), was opened for traffic on the 15th October, 1902. A branch (14 miles) has been made from this line to the Eldorado Mine. A line from Gwelo to Selukwe (24 miles) was completed in August, 1903, and one from Salisbury to Mazoe (about 30 miles) is being surveyed. A line to the Matopos, where Mr. Rhodes is buried, was opened for traffic on November 1st, 1903.

Lands and Agriculture.

In 1897 a geodetic survey of Southern Rhodesia was initiated under the superintendence of Sir David Gill, K.C.B., H.M. Astronomer at the Cape of Good Hope, and was completed to the Zambesi river, in August, 1901. The survey from the Zambesi to Lake Tanganyika was commenced in July, 1903.

Land in Southern Rhodesia may be purchased outright for cash subject to the fulfilment of a simple occupation condition, or it may be held under a permit of occupation with option of purchase for cash, or by instalments, at any time within ten years. The minimum price of land is 1s. 6d. per morgen (a little more than 2 acres), but this figure may be altered from time to time. The title deed gives the purchaser the freehold to the land subject to an annual payment of quit-rent, which is roughly 1l. per 1,000 acres. Applications for land or information regarding it should be addressed to the Secretary, Estates Office, Salisbury, Rhodesia, or to the Controller, Rhodesian Emigration and Information Office, 138, Strand, London, W.C.
Up to 31st March, 1907, the acreage of farms surveyed in Mashonaland was approximately 9,693,446 English acres, and in Matabeleland 12,565,164 acres. This, however, does not represent the total amount of surveyed land, as many farms have been privately surveyed.

Special steamship and railway facilities are given to boma tide farmer settlers and their wives and families proceeding to Rhodesia, and special local railway rates are in force for the benefit of the farming community.

Considerable tracts of land have been placed under cultivation, and fresh stock is being imported. It may be said that virtually the whole of Southern Rhodesia is well watered, and adapted for stock-raising and for agriculture. Cattle generally do very well in all parts. Sheep and goats thrive in many parts and will do better after the grass is fed down. Pigs thrive well, and, so far, have never shown disease. Poultry and eggs always command a ready sale at remunerative prices. Throughout the country the conditions of soil and climate are suitable for all kinds of European cereals and vegetables, and, in addition, many trees, shrubs and plants peculiar to sub-tropical regions can be successfully cultivated. Mealies, Kaffir-corn, and other native cereals grow well in the rainy season without irrigation. Tobacco culture has now passed the experimental stage, and the industry is being rapidly developed. The plant grows luxuriantly, and considerable acreage is under cultivation. There is every prospect of an early export trade being created in mealies and tobacco, and later it is hoped to export other products such as fibres, rubber and cotton. Large fruit orchards have been planted, and nearly all fruit trees thrive. The sale of dairy produce is a profitable industry in the neighbourhood of the towns.

Roads.

On December 31st, 1907, the total mileage of roads in Southern Rhodesia was about 3,750 miles, including about 650 miles of cross roads in mining and farming districts. In these figures roads which have fallen into disuse owing to railway construction are not included.

Posts and Telegraphs.

The mails from the United Kingdom to Southern Rhodesia are conveyed by the mail steamers of the subsidised Union-Castle Company, weekly, between Southampton and Table Bay. From Cape Town they are conveyed by train to Bulawayo in three days. There are also daily mail and passenger trains from Cape Town to Bulawayo performing the journey in four days. From Bulawayo to Salisbury the mails are conveyed three times a week, the journey occupying about 24 hours. There are two mail and passenger trains weekly between Salisbury and Beira, the time occupied on the journey being thirty hours.

The outlying districts of Southern Rhodesia are served by mail coaches and carts, but the mails to the less important districts are conveyed by native runners.

North-Western Rhodesia (Barotseland) receives its mails via Bulawayo. They are conveyed from Bulawayo to the Victoria Falls, Kalomo and Broken Hill by train, and to the several postal stations in the territory by native runners.

The North-Eastern Rhodesia postal service, which formerly was carried out via Chinde, is now performed via Bulawayo and the Victoria Falls, although mail matter may still be forwarded to Fort Jameson and other stations in the territory by the Chinde and Blantyre route. The time occupied in the transmission of the mails between Fort Jameson and the United Kingdom is now five weeks and two days.

On the 31st of December, 1907, 70 post offices were open in Southern Rhodesia, at 20 of which Money Order business was transacted. Telegraph Money Orders are also exchanged between Money Order Offices in Rhodesia and with Money Order Offices in the Cape Colony, Natal, Transvaal, and the Orange River Colony.

The rate for inland letters is 1d. per ½ oz., for letters to other parts of South Africa 1½d. per ½ oz., and for letters for places over-sea 2½d. per ½ oz. The rate for letters from the United Kingdom to Rhodesia is 1d. per oz.

The Rhodesian Telegraph and Telephone system extends from Ramathlabama, on the northern border of Cape Colony, to Ujiji in German East Africa, and comprises 7,118 miles of wire, on 3,984 miles of poles. The section of line from Umtali to Ujiji is the property of the African Transcontinental Telegraph Company.

On the 31st December, 1907, 82 telegraph offices were open. The rate for Inland telegrams is 1d. per word; for telegrams exchanged between Rhodesia and other parts of South Africa, 2½d. per word; and for cablegrams to Europe is 2s. 8½d. per word. Telegrams from Europe and from South Africa, for the Portuguese province of Manica and Sofala, Portuguese East Africa (including Chinde and Quilimane), the Nyasaland Protectorate, North Eastern Rhodesia, and for German East Africa, all pass over the Rhodesian lines.

Telephone exchanges are in operation at Bulawayo, Salisbury, Umtali, Gwelo, and Selukwe.

Post Office Savings Banks were established on 1st January, 1905. Up to 31st December, 1908, the amount deposited was £186,477.1s., and the amount withdrawn was £132,736.5s. 53,781l. has already been invested in Trustee Securities.

Customs.

Prior to the 1st August, 1899, no duties were leviable upon goods entering Southern Rhodesia. On that date the Customs Ordinance came into operation, and continued in force till August, 1903, when, as a result of the South African Customs Conference, the necessary Ordinance empowering Southern Rhodesia to enter the newly formed Customs Union was unanimously passed by the Legislative Council. This Convention of 1903 has been superseded by that of 1906. The following is the value of the declared imports into Southern Rhodesia during the past seven years, together with the amount of duty collected:

| Year ended 31st March | Value (£) | Duty (£) |
|-----------------------|----------|---------|
| 1901                  | 1,221,968| 95,556  |
| 1902                  | 1,443,053| 123,158 |
| 1903                  | 1,858,569| 128,073 |
| 1904                  | 1,576,619| 128,387 |
| 1905                  | 951,688  | 105,934 |
| 31st Dec., 1905       | 1,213,776| 128,250 |
| 1906                  | 1,340,687| 162,739 |
| 1907                  | 1,450,174| 171,120 |
The exports from Southern Rhodesia during the year ended 31st December, 1907, amounted to £2,474,236.

An Ordinance was promulgated on 1st October, 1901, imposing a duty of 6s. per gallon on spirits manufactured in South Africa, and imported into the Territory. Another Ordinance was also promulgated upon the same date imposing an excise duty of a similar amount upon spirits manufactured within Southern Rhodesia.

Minerals.

GOLD.—That gold was obtained from Rhodesia many centuries before the Christian Era is evidenced from the innumerable "ancient workings," the ruins of temples and forts supposed to date from the time of the Himyarites and Phoenicians, and the discovery of gold beads, gold plates, fine chains, wire, nails, etc. From the occupation of the country in 1890 by the British South Africa Company when the European population amounted to about 200 persons, consisting of the pioneers and a few officials, up to September, 1898, the gold produced only amounted to 6,470 ounces. Since that date, however, the output has been steadily increasing, and the following table shows the progress made:

| Year | Estimated Value |
|------|-----------------|
| 1900 | 85,367 ozs. £308,249 |
| 1901 | 172,035 ,, 610,389 |
| 1902 | 194,170 ,, 687,096 |
| 1903 | 231,872 ,, 827,729 |
| 1904 | 267,737 ,, 969,343 |
| 1905 | 407,048 ,, 1,449,985 |
| 1906 | 551,894 ,, 1,985,099 |
| 1907 | 612,052 ,, 2,178,886 |
| 1908 | 606,961 ,, 2,526,007 |

The small decrease in the number of ounces of gold declared in 1908, as compared with 1907, is accounted for by the fact that since 31st March, 1908, all results have been declared in ounces of fine gold instead of in bullion.

COAL.—For some years past coal has been known to exist in several districts. In the Wankie District, 212 miles from Bulawayo, and 70 miles from the Victoria Falls on the River Zambesi, a coal bed of vast extent has been disclosed. The result of careful and systematic examination shows that as regards quality the coal is only from 4 to 6 per cent. inferior to Welsh steam coal of similar quality. During the year 1907 the output amounted to 115,073 tons, and for the year 1908 to 164,114 tons. Other promising discoveries of coal have been made in the Victoria, Tuli and Sebungwe districts, also in North-Western Rhodesia, but, so far, sufficient exploratory work has not been carried out to admit of a final opinion being pronounced as to their precise value.

The output of silver during the year 1907 was 147,324 oz., and for 1908 283,425 oz. The output of lead in 1907 amounted to 756 tons, and for 1908 1,069 tons.

COPPER.—Discoveries of copper have been reported in the Victoria, Lomagundi and Melsetter districts in Southern Rhodesia, and highly promising deposits have been disclosed both in North-Eastern and North-Western Rhodesia.

The amount of copper declared from Southern Rhodesia during 1907 was 81 tons, and in 1908 95 tons.

During 1905 diamonds were discovered in the Gwelo district, and 7,020 carats had been declared up to the 31st December, 1908.

Amongst other minerals, 60 tons of wolframite ore, 25,021 tons of chrome iron ore, 46 tons of scheelite, 14 tons of antimony and 56 tons of asbestos have been exported up to 31st December, 1908.

Education.

On the 31st March, 1907, there were in Southern Rhodesia eighteen state-aided schools. The total number of children in Government-aided schools was 801 as against 611 for the previous year. The total net expenditure amounted to £5,542. There are three native schools aided by the Government. Besides the schools aided by Government there are 14 private schools, the pupils numbering 204.

Revenue and Expenditure (Southern Rhodesia).

| Year       | Revenue     | Expenditure |
|------------|-------------|-------------|
| 1898–1899  | £269,085    | £761,934    |
| 1899–1900  | £325,180    | £702,400    |
| 1900–1901  | £406,467    | £633,849    |
| 1901–1902  | £435,256    | £710,563    |
| 1902–1903  | £497,782    | £770,108    |
| 1903–1904  | £434,754    | £736,571    |
| 1904–1905  | £453,173    | £590,139    |
| 1905–1906  | £523,669    | £499,768    |
| 1906–1907  | £544,937    | £501,474    |
| 1907–1908  | £554,029    | £543,597    |
| 1908–1909  | *£535,760   | *£526,476   |

Full details as to the administration of Rhodesia, and as to climate and products, with routes to and from Rhodesia, can be obtained at the offices of the British South Africa Company, 2, London Wall Buildings, London, E.C.

* Excluding the Company's Commercial Revenue.

Board of Directors of the British South Africa Company.

His Grace the Duke of Abercorn, K.G., President.
Rochfort Maguire, Esq., Vice-President.
The Right Hon. Lord Gifford, V.C.
Sir Lewis Michell.
P. Lyttelton Gell, Esq.
The Right Hon. Dr. L. S. Jameson, C.B.
H. Birchenough, Esq., C.M.G.
The Marquess of Winchester.
Manager, H. Wilson Fox, Esq.
Secretary, Douglas E. Brodie.
Assistant Secretary, A. P. Millar.
Registrar, R. C. Bolton.

Railways.

Consulting Engineers in London, Sir Douglas Fox and Partners.
Consulting Engineer in Rhodesia, Sir Charles Metcalfe, Bart.
SOUTHERN RHODESIA ADMINISTRATION.

Administrator, Sir W. H. Milton, K.C.M.G.
Imperial Resident Commissioner and Commandant-General, Lieut.-Col. James G. Fair, D.S.O.

Executive Council.

The Administrator.
H.M. Resident Commissioner.
F. J. Newton, C.M.G., Treasurer.
C. H. Tredgold, LL.B., Attorney-General.
E. W. S. Montagu, Secretary for Mines and Works.

Legislative Council.

The Administrator, President.
H.M. Resident Commissioner.
F. J. Newton, C.M.G., Treasurer.
C. H. Tredgold, LL.B., Attorney-General.
E. W. S. Montagu, Secretary for Mines and Works.

J. H. Kennedy, Master of the High Court.
E. Ross Townsend, Secretary for Agriculture.
W. H. Brown,
Col. Raleigh Grey, C.M.G.,
F. R. Myburgh, Eastern.
H. Longden, Midland.
C. P. J. Coghlan,
R. A. Fletcher,
G. S. D. Forbes, D.S.O.

Clerk of Councils, J. Robertson.

Administrator's Department.

Secretary, H. Marshall Hole.
Private Secretary and Chief Clerk, A. H. Holland.
Medical Director, A. M. Fleming, C.M.G., M.B., C.M. Edin.
Director of Education and Statist, G. Duthie.

Treasurer's Department.

Treasurer, F. J. Newton, C.M.G.
Acting Secretary, P. D. L. Fynn.
Postmaster-General, G. H. Eyre.
Controller of Customs, E. C. Baxter.

Native Affairs Department.

Secretary for Native Affairs, Sir W. H. Milton, K.C.M.G.
Chief Native Commissioner, Mashonaland, W. S. Talberer.
Chief Native Commissioner, Matabeleland, H. J. Taylor.

Native Commissioners.

Mashonaland:
Charter, J. W. Posselt
Hartley, A. Drew
Lomugwandi, W. E. Scott
North Mazoe, D. M.
Powley *
South Mazoe, E. T.
Kenny
M'toko, W. T. Laing
Marandella, E. W.
Morris
Makoni,

Matabeleland:
Gwanda-Tuli, H. A.
Elliott
Selungwe-Mafungabusi,
V. Gielgud
Insiza, A. A. Campbell,
C. L. Carbutt †
Belingwe, W. E. Farrar
Selukwe, F. G. Elliot
Mutobo, C. W. Morris *

Umtali, T. B. Hulley
Melsetter, L.C. Meredith
Victoria, A. Drew
N'Dawna, D. H. Moodie
Gutu-Chilimani, A. T.
Holland (acting)
Chibi, P. Forrestall
Salisbury, Capt.
R. Nesbitt, V.C. (acting)
M'rewa, W. Edwards
Inyanga, D. H. Moodie

* Assistant Native Commissioner.

Legal Department.

Attorney-General, C. H. Tredgold, LL.B.
Secretary to the Law Department, R. McIlwaine.
Solicitor-General (Bulawayo), J. D. McKenzie.
Registrar of Deeds, Companies, and Patents (Salisbury), G. J. King.
Registrar of Deeds and Companies (Bulawayo), A. R. Tonge.

High Court.

Senior Judge, J. Vincent, B.A., LL.B.
Puisne Judge, J. P. Watermeyer, B.A., LL.B.
Master, Registrar and Sheriff, J. H. Kennedy.

District Courts and Offices.

Mashonaland:
Salisbury:
Magistrate, E. A. L. Brailsford.
Assistant Magistrate, F. J. Clarke.
Enkeldoorn and Charter:
Magistrate, W. R. Shand.
Umtali:
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, L. Powys-Jones.
Melsetter:
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, W. M. Longden.
Victoria:
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, G. M. Huntly.

Matabeleland:
Bulawayo:
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, R. H. Myburgh.
Additional Magistrate, J. P. L. de Smidt.
Guelo:
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, P. G. Smith.
Gwanda-Tuli:
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, C. M. Fletcher (acting).

Mines and Public Works.

Secretary for Mines and Works, E. W. S. Montagu.
Mining Commissioners, N. Macglashan, G. J. Bowen, C. D. Fleming, O. H. Oligivie, A. A. Heyman, F. S. Brown.
Registrar of Claims, A. G. Bagshawe.

Lands.

Surveyor-General, W. I. Atherstone.

Agriculture.

Director of Agriculture, E. A. Nobbs.
Chief Veterinary Surgeon, J. M. Sinclair.

* Assistant Native Commissioner.
† Additional Native Commissioner.
SOUTH AFRICA: RHODESIA—SOUTHERN NIGERIA.

Commercial Department.

Commercial Representative, J. A. Stevens (acting).
Director of Land Settlement, C. D. Wise.
Secretary, Estates Office, F. W. Inskip.
Resident Mining Engineer, A. H. Ackermann.
Assistant Mining Engineer, W. J. Grant.
Manager, Tobacco Warehouse, W. A. Rice.
Accountant, W. P. Moore.

Cape Town Office.

Representative, W. Olive.

NORTH-EASTERN RHODESIA.

Administrator, L. P. Beaufort (acting).
Secretary, H. Rangeley.
Judge of the High Court, L. P. Beaufort, M.A., B.C.L.
Registrar of the High Court, C. H. Timmier.
Principal Medical Officer, J. C. Spillane.
Controller, Posts and Telegraphs, H. A. Baldock.
Secretary, Lands and Mines Dept., (vacant).
Commandant, Native Constabulary, Captain G. F. Watherston.

District Courts and Offices.

East Loangwa:
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, C. P. Chesnaye.
Assistant Magistrate and Native Commissioner, J. C. Coxhead.

West Loangwa:
Civil and Native Commissioner and Assistant Magistrate, H. Croad.

Tanyangika:
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, H. C. Marshall.

North Loangwa and Avemba:
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate,

Mweru:
Civil and Native Commissioner and Assistant Magistrate, G. C. P. Lyons.

Luapula:
Civil and Native Commissioner and Assistant Magistrate, H. T. Harrington.

NORTH-WESTERN RHODESIA.

Administrator, L. A. Wallace (acting).
Secretary, R. Goole.
Commandant, Barotse Native Police, Lieut.-Col. John Carden.
Secretary to Administrator for Native Affairs, F. V. Worthington.
Public Prosecutor, J. Macdonell.
Registrar of the High Court, K. B. Fairbairn.
Accountant, L. Robinson.
Medical Officer, Aylmer May.
Mines and Lands Dept. (vacant).
Civil Commissioner and Magistrate, Livingstone, P. H. Selby.
Relieving District Commissioner, W. Hazell.

District Commissioners:

Butoka—G. C. McGregor.*
Barotse—C. McKinnon.*
Kasempa—E. A. Copeman.*
Kafue—A. C. Anderson.
Mashukulumbwe—A. M. Dale.*
Mankoya—L. L. Courtney.*
Sesheke—F. C. Macaulay.*
Loangwa—C. C. Shekelton.*

* Magisterial Powers.

