THE WINDWARD ISLANDS

Area

The total area of the Islands is 826 square miles.

Population

At the end of 1953 the total population was about 299,000. The majority are of the negro race; less than 5% are white. There are a few persons of East Indian descent, and a few Caribs still remain in St. Vincent and Dominica.

Geographical Features

The islands are of volcanic origin and the more sheltered coasts are fringed by reefs. Torrential streams from the more rugged areas tend to lose their gradient nearer the coast and the deposition of their sediments has led to the formation of fertile river flats and occasional river terraces. The residual clays on the rugged volcanic areas are comparatively fertile. One of the volcanoes in the Windward region (St. Vincent) was active in 1902. At the Soufrieres of Dominica and St. Lucia and in parts of Grenada hot sulphuretted gases still emerge and there are numerous hot springs which contain salts.

Climate

The prevailing trade winds provide a delightful climate. There is little variation between night and day.

Principal Towns

The capitals of the four colonies are:

Grenada—St. George's (residence of Governor) ... 5,772 (1946 census)

Dominica—Roseau ... 9,752 (1946 census)

St. Lucia—Castries and suburbs ... 18,000 (1952 estimate)

St. Vincent—Kingstown and suburbs ... 14,766 (1946 census)

History

As early as 1763 one Governor was appointed for the "Southern Caribbee Islands" of Grenada, Dominica, St. Vincent and Tobago. Dominica was separated in 1771, St. Vincent in 1776; and in 1783 Tobago was ceded to the French. In 1833 St. Vincent was included with Barbados, Grenada and Tobago in one general government, the Governor-in-Chief being resident at Barbados, with Lieutenant-Governors in each of the other islands. In 1838 St. Lucia was included in this general government. On 17th March, 1885, Letters Patent were passed constituting the Government of the Windward Islands, Barbados being omitted. Tobago was subsequently united with Trinidad. On 1st January, 1940, Dominica was included in the Windward Islands.

Constitution and Administration

Each of the four colonies of Grenada, St. Vincent, St. Lucia and Dominica retains its own institutions. The Governor is normally resident in Grenada, where he is assisted by a Chief Secretary of the Windward Islands. The government of each colony is administered by a resident Administrator subject to instructions from the Governor. There is no common Legislature, nor common laws, revenue or tariff. Each colony has a Legislative Council presided over by the Administrator, in which the majority of members are elected by universal adult suffrage; and each colony has an Executive Council which may be summoned and consulted by either the Governor or the Administrator. A Court of Appeal for the West Indies, consisting of the Chief Justices of the several West Indian Islands except Jamaica was set up in 1920 and a Supreme Court and Court of Appeal for the Windward Islands and Leeward Islands were established in 1939. There is also a common audit system, instituted in 1889. In 1951 revised constitutions were introduced in each of the four islands.

Land Policy

There is a small amount of Crown land reserved mainly for purposes of forest and water conservation. There is no restriction on the transfer of land except to aliens, for which the consent of the Governor in Executive Council is necessary.

Taxation

The main form of direct taxation is income tax. The other main forms of taxation are trade tariffs and excise duties. Some of the major crops are subject to an export tax.

Currency

The currency comprises dollar notes ($1 = 4s. 2d.) and British coinage. Notes issued by the Eastern Caribbean Currency Board were introduced in 1951 in denominations of $1, $2, $5, $10, $20 and $100, when the Windward Islands joined with the other British territories in the Eastern Caribbean (Barbados, British Guiana, the Leeward Islands, and Trinidad) in currency unification.

Development

Under the Colonial Development and Welfare Act of 1945 the Windward Islands received an original allocation of £1,850,000. This was sub-allocated to the various colonies as follows:

| Colony     | Amount (£) |
|------------|-----------|
| Grenada    | 381,890   |
| St. Vincent| 345,858   |
| St. Lucia  | 374,632   |
| Dominica   | 339,120   |
A sum of £408,500 was reserved by the Governor for schemes covering more than one territory and for unforeseen contingencies.

Supplementary allocations have been made as follows:

- Grenada: £180,000
- St. Vincent: £120,000
- St. Lucia: £934,000
- Dominica: £415,000
- Windwards General: £45,000

Libraries, Museums, etc.

In each of the principal towns of the four Islands of the Group there is a free public library and there are several branch libraries throughout the Islands, all maintained by Government. The Dominica Museum, the only one in the Windward Islands, possesses a fine collection of pictures, specimens of birds and fishes and relics of the original Caribs.

Health

The principal diseases are malaria, enteric fever, helminthic diseases, yaws, venereal diseases, pulmonary tuberculosis and dysentery.

The United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund, in co-operation with the World Health Organization, have made grants towards the implementation of insect control programmes in St. Lucia and Grenada. Applications have been submitted for the carrying out of similar projects in Dominica and St. Vincent.

Communications

Airfields have been constructed in Grenada and St. Lucia, and these two colonies are served by British West Indian Airways on a regular schedule. A temporary service with Grumman Goose amphibian aircraft is operated by the St. Vincent Government between Trinidad, Grenada, Carriacou, Barbados, St. Vincent and Dominica.

Broadcasting

Construction of a Windward Islands Broadcasting Station, with headquarters in St. George's, Grenada, commenced in 1954. Transmissions will take place on short-waves from a 5 kW transmitter, and will cover all four Islands. Subsequently, low-power local stations will be erected in St. Vincent, St. Lucia and Dominica.

The capital outlay on these stations, and the running costs for the first few years, have been provided from Colonial Development and Welfare funds.

CIVIL ESTABLISHMENT

GOVERNOR AND COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF
—C. M. Deverell, C.M.G., C.V.O., O.B.E.

Private Secretary—T. B. Comissiong, O.B.E.

Chief Secretary, Windward Islands—L. Cools-Lartigue, O.B.E.

Chief Justice (Windward and Leeward Islands)—Sir Donald Jackson.

Puisne Judges (Windward and Leeward Islands)—W. A. Date; K. L. Gordon; (1 Vacant).

Attorney-General—C. F. Henville, Q.C.

Principal Auditor—N. Catterall.

Financial and Economic Adviser—D. J. Kirkness (on secondment from the Colonial Office).

Labour Adviser—(Vacant).

Assistant Secretary (Finance and Economics)—K. A. Augier.

Assistant Secretary (Administrative) (Windward Islands)—H. M. Christopher.

Nutrition Officer—Miss L. Horne.

Fisheries Adviser—(Vacant).

Executive Architect—M. V. Smith.
